Anarchism is a political philosophy that advocates self-governed societies based on voluntary institutions. These are often described as stateless societies,&quot;ANARCHISM, a social philosophy that rejects authoritarian government and maintains that voluntary institutions are best suited to express man's natural social tendencies.
Albedo () is a measure for reflectance or optical brightness (Latin albedo, &quot;whiteness&quot;) of a surface. It is dimensionless and measured on a scale from zero (corresponding to a black body that absorbs all incident radiation) to one (corresponding to a white body that reflects all incident radiation).
A (named , plural As, A's, as, a's or aes}}) is the first letter and the first vowel of the ISO basic Latin alphabet. It is similar to the Ancient Greek letter alpha, from which it derives.
In Greek mythology, Achilles  (, ;  ) was a Greek hero of the Trojan War and the central character and greatest warrior of Homer's Iliad. His mother was the immortal nymph Thetis, and his father, the mortal Peleus, was the king of the Myrmidons.
An American in Paris is a jazz-influenced orchestral piece by the American composer George Gershwin, written in 1928. Inspired by the time Gershwin had spent in Paris, it evokes the sights and energy of the French capital in the 1920s and is one of his best-known compositions.
The Academy Award for Best Production Design recognizes achievement for art direction in film. The category's original name was Best Art Direction, but was changed to its current name in 2012 for the 85th Academy Awards.
Animalia is an illustrated children's book by Graeme Base. It was originally published in 1986, followed by a tenth anniversary edition in 1996, and a 25th anniversary edition in 2012.
International Atomic Time (TAI, from the French name Temps atomique 1975) is a high-precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on Earth's geoid. It is the principal realisation of Terrestrial Time (except for a fixed offset of epoch).
Altruism or selflessness is the principle or practice of concern for the welfare of others. It is a traditional virtue in many cultures and a core aspect of various religious traditions and secular worldviews, though the concept of &quot;others&quot; toward whom concern should be directed can vary among cultures and religions.
Algeria portal|Outline of Algeria}}
This is a list of characters in Ayn Rand's novel Atlas Shrugged.
Anthropology is the study of various aspects of humans within past and present societies. Social anthropology and cultural anthropology study the norms and values of societies.
Agricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. (Veterinary science, but not animal science, is often excluded from the definition.
Alchemy is a philosophical and protoscientific tradition practiced throughout Europe, Africa and Asia. It aimed to purify, mature, and perfect certain objects...
Alien primarily refers to:
An astronomer is a scientist in the field of astronomy who concentrates their studies on a specific question or field outside the scope of Earth. They look at stars, planets, moons, comets and galaxies, as well as many other celestial objects — either in observational astronomy, in analyzing the data or in theoretical astronomy.
ASCII ( ), abbreviated from American Standard Code for Information Interchange, is a character encoding standard for electronic communication. ASCII codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices.
Austin is the capital of Texas in the United States.
Animation is the process of making the illusion of motion and the illusion of change by means of the rapid succession of sequential images that minimally differ from each other. The illusion—as in motion pictures in general—is thought to rely on the phi phenomenon and beta movement, but the exact causes are still unclear.
Apollo (Attic, Ionic, and Homeric Greek: , Apollōn ( ); Doric: , Apellōn; Arcadocypriot: , Apeilōn; Aeolic: , Aploun; ) is one of the most important and complex of the Olympian deities in classical Greek and Roman religion and Greek and Roman mythology. The ideal of the kouros (a beardless, athletic youth), Apollo has been variously recognized as a god of music, truth and prophecy, healing, the sun and light, plague, poetry, and more.
The Austroasiatic languages, in recent classifications synonymous with Mon–Khmer,Bradley (2012) notes, MK in the wider sense including the Munda languages of eastern South Asia is also known as Austroasiatic. are a large language family of continental Southeast Asia, also scattered throughout India, Bangladesh, Nepal and the southern border of China.
Afroasiatic (Afro-Asiatic), also known as Afrasian and traditionally as Hamito-Semitic (Chamito-Semitic),Daniel Don Nanjira, African Foreign Policy and Diplomacy: From Antiquity to the 21st Century, (ABC-CLIO: 2010). is a large language family of several hundred related languages and dialects.
a
In mathematics and statistics, the arithmetic mean (, stress on third syllable of &quot;arithmetic&quot;), or simply the mean or average when the context is clear, is the sum of a collection of numbers divided by the number of numbers in the collection. The collection is often a set of results of an experiment, or a set of results from a survey.
The American Football Conference (AFC) is one of the two conferences of the National Football League (NFL), the highest professional level of American football in the United States. This conference and its counterpart, the National Football Conference (NFC), currently contain 16 teams each, making up the 32 teams of the NFL.
Animal Farm is an allegorical novella by George Orwell, first published in England on 17 August 1945. According to Orwell, the book reflects events leading up to the Russian Revolution of 1917 and then on into the Stalinist era of the Soviet Union.
}}
Agriculture or farming is the cultivation and breeding of animals, plants and fungi for food, fiber, biofuel, medicinal plants and other products used to sustain and enhance human life. Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that nurtured the development of civilization.
Ada may refer to:
Aberdeen is a city in Scotland, United Kingdom.
}}
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models used to analyze the differences among group means and their associated procedures (such as &quot;variation&quot; among and between groups), developed by statistician and evolutionary biologist Ronald Fisher. In the ANOVA setting, the observed variance in a particular variable is partitioned into components attributable to different sources of variation.
right|thumb|Chemical structure of [[methane, the simplest alkane]]
United States appellate procedure involves the rules and regulations for filing appeals in state courts and federal courts. The nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case and the rules of the court in the jurisdiction where the case was prosecuted.
In law, an Answer was originally a solemn assertion in opposition to someone or something, and thus generally any counter-statement or defense, a reply to a question or response, or objection, or a correct solution of a problem.
}}
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant to inform the defendant of the charges against him or her. In response to arraignment, the accused is expected to enter a plea.
&quot;America the Beautiful&quot; is an American patriotic song. The lyrics were written by Katharine Lee Bates, and the music was composed by church organist and choirmaster Samuel A.
Assistive technology is an umbrella term that includes assistive, adaptive, and rehabilitative devices for people with disabilities and also includes the process used in selecting, locating, and using them. Assistive technology promotes greater independence by enabling people to perform tasks that they were formerly unable to accomplish, or had great difficulty accomplishing, by providing enhancements to, or changing methods of interacting with, the technology needed to accomplish such tasks.
Abacı|the medieval book|Liber Abaci}}
An acid is a molecule or ion capable of donating a hydron (proton or hydrogen ion H+), or, alternatively, capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair (a Lewis acid).IUPAC Gold Book - acid
Asphalt , also known as bitumen , is a sticky, black, and highly viscous liquid or semi-solid form of petroleum. It may be found in natural deposits or may be a refined product, and is classed as a pitch.
19 October 1918, Minutes, American Engineering Standards Committee (AESC), p. 1
In logic and philosophy, an argument is an attempt to persuade someone of something, or give evidence or reasons for accepting a particular conclusion.
An astronaut or cosmonaut () is a person trained by a human spaceflight program to command, pilot, or serve as a crew member of a spacecraft. Although generally reserved for professional space travelers, the terms are sometimes applied to anyone who travels into space, including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists.
A Modest Proposal For preventing the Children of Poor People From being a Burthen to Their Parents or Country, and For making them Beneficial to the Publick, commonly referred to as A Modest Proposal, is a Juvenalian satirical essay written and published anonymously by Jonathan Swift in 1729.  Swift suggests that the impoverished Irish might ease their economic troubles by selling their children as food for rich gentlemen and ladies.
The alkali metals are a group (column) in the periodic table consisting of the chemical elements lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K),The symbols Na and K for sodium and potassium are derived from their Latin names, natrium and kalium; these are still the names for the elements in some languages, such as German and Russian. rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs),.
An alphabet is a standard set of letters (basic written symbols or graphemes) that is used to write one or more languages based upon the general principle that the letters represent phonemes (basic significant sounds) of the spoken language. This is in contrast to other types of writing systems, such as syllabaries (in which each character represents a syllable) and logographies (in which each character represents a word, morpheme, or semantic unit).
thumb|right|300px|The Rutherford–Bohr model of the [[hydrogen atom ( 1}}) or a hydrogen-like ion (). In this model it is an essential feature that the photon energy (or frequency) of the electromagnetic radiation emitted (shown) when an electron jumps from one orbital to another, be proportional to the mathematical square of atomic charge ().
Anatomy is the branch of biology concerned with the study of the structure of organisms and their parts.Merriam Webster Dictionary Anatomy (Greek anatomē, “dissection”) is a branch of natural science dealing with the structural organization of living things.
Affirming the consequent, sometimes called converse error, fallacy of the converse or confusion of necessity and sufficiency, is a formal fallacy of inferring the converse from the original statement. The corresponding argument has the general form:
Tarkovsky (surname)}}
Ambiguity is a type of uncertainty of meaning in which several interpretations are [It is thus an attribute of any idea or statement whose intended] meaning cannot be definitively resolved according to a rule or process with a finite number of steps. (The [part of the [[Terminology|term] reflects an idea of &quot;[[2 (number)|two&quot;, as in &quot;two meanings&quot;.
An animal is a multicellular, eukaryotic organism of the kingdom Animalia or Metazoa.
}}
Adobe (, ;definition of adobe from Oxford Dictionaries Online. Retrieved 25 December 2010.
An adventure is an exciting or unusual experience. It may also be a bold, usually risky undertaking, with an uncertain outcome.
Asia Minor is an alternative name for Anatolia, the westernmost protrusion of Asia, comprising the majority of the Republic of Turkey. It may also refer to:
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Angola, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Since the adoption of a new constitution in 2010, the politics of Angola takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Angola is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$194 billion (PPP) (2017 est.)Rank: 65 (2017 est.
Transport in Angola comprises:
Geraldo Sachipengo Nunda is a former UNITA general. See http://www.
The foreign relations of Angola are based on Angola's strong support of U.S.
Android}}
(&quot;Strong and free&quot;)
==A==
}} ||}} |}}
Allah (;&quot;Allah&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
Algorithms is a peer-reviewed open access mathematics journal  concerning design, analysis, and experiments on algorithms.
thumb|right|250px|Amateur astronomers watch the night sky during the [[Perseids|Perseid meteor shower.]]
)
Art is a diverse range of human activities in creating visual, auditory or performing artifacts (artworks), expressing the author's imaginative or technical skill, intended to be appreciated for their beauty or emotional power. In their most general form these activities include the production of works of art, the criticism of art, the study of the history of art, and the aesthetic dissemination of art.
In law, an abstract is a brief statement that contains the most important points of a long legal document or of several related legal papers.
September 3, 1783A ceasefire in America was proclaimed by Congress on April 11, 1783 in response to a ceasefire agreement between Great Britain and France on January 20, 1783. The final peace treaty was signed on September 3, 1783 and ratified in the U.
Ampère}}
thumb|right| [[Flow chart of an algorithm (Euclid's algorithm) for calculating the greatest common divisor (g.c.
right|thumb|240px|[[Peas are an annual plant.]]
The anthophytes were thought  to be a clade comprising plants bearing flower-like structures.  The group contained the angiosperms - the extant flowering plants, such as roses and grasses - as well as the Gnetales and the extinct Bennettitales.
An atlas is a collection of maps.
Mouthwash, mouth rinse, oral rinse or mouth bath, is a liquid which is held in the mouth passively or swilled around the mouth by contraction of the perioral muscles and/or movement of the head, and may be gargled, where the head is tilted back and the liquid bubbled at the back of the mouth.
Asteroids are minor planets, especially those of the inner Solar System. The larger ones have also been called planetoids.
An allocution, or allocutus, is a formal statement made to the court by the defendant who has been found guilty prior to being sentenced. It is part of the criminal procedure in some jurisdictions using common law.
An affidavit ( ) is a written sworn statement of fact voluntarily made by an affiant or deponent under an oath or affirmation administered by a person authorized to do so by law. Such statement is witnessed as to the authenticity of the affiant's signature by a taker of oaths, such as a notary public or commissioner of oaths.
, genitive
, plural: anime|lead=yes}} is a Japanese term for hand-drawn or computer animation. The word is the abbreviated pronunciation of &quot;animation&quot; in Japanese, where this term references all animation.
Asterism may refer to:
Anacondas are a group of large snakes of the genus Eunectes. They are found in tropical South America.
}}
(or )
In mathematics, the axiom of choice, or AC, is an axiom of set theory equivalent to the statement that the Cartesian product of a collection of non-empty sets is non-empty. It states that for every indexed family (S_i)_{i \in I} of nonempty sets there exists an indexed family (x_i)_{i \in I} of elements such that x_i \in S_i for every i \in I.
A Clockwork Orange is a dystopian novel by Anthony Burgess published in 1962. Set in a near future English society featuring a subculture of extreme youth violence, the teenage protagonist, Alex, narrates his violent exploits and his experiences with state authorities intent on reforming him.
the Rijksmuseum}}
thumb|200px|The Iron is a famous 20th century landmark in central Norrköping
An aircraft is a machine that is able to fly by gaining support from the air. It counters the force of gravity by using either static lift or by using the dynamic lift of an airfoil, or in a few cases the downward thrust from jet engines.
Alfred Noble}}
thumb|upright=1.7|The traditional definition of Anatolia within modern TurkeyStephen Mitchell, Anatolia: Land, Men, and Gods in Asia Minor.
Aztlan Underground is a fusion band from Los Angeles. Since early 1989, Aztlan Underground has played Rapcore.
, ruins of Richmond, Virginia, Battle of Franklin
Soviet Historical Encyclopedia. Volume I.
Ancient Egypt was a civilization of ancient Northeastern Africa, concentrated along the lower reaches of the Nile River in the place that is now the country Egypt. It is one of six historic civilizations to arise independently.
Analog Brothers were an experimental hip-hop crew featuring Ice Oscillator also known as Ice-T (keyboards, drums, vocals), Keith Korg also known as Kool Keith (bass, strings, vocals), Mark Moog also known as Marc Live (drums, violyns and vocals), Silver Synth also known as Black Silver (synthesizer, lazar bell and vocals), and Rex Roland also known as Pimp Rex (keyboards, vocals, production). Its album Pimp to Eat featured guest appearances by various members of Rhyme Syndicate, Odd Oberheim, Jacky jasper (who appears as Jacky Jasper on the song &quot;We Sleep Days&quot; and H-Bomb on &quot;War&quot;), D.
An abjad (pronounced http://www.oxforddictionaries.
An abugida  (from Ge'ez: አቡጊዳ ’abugida), or alphasyllabary, also known as avugida, is a segmental writing system in which consonant–vowel sequences are written as a unit: each unit is based on a consonant letter, and vowel notation is secondary. This contrasts with a full alphabet, in which vowels have status equal to consonants, and with an abjad, in which vowel marking is absent, partial, or optional.
}}
}}
Altenberg (German for &quot;old mountain&quot;) may refer to:
Alfons Maria Jakob (2 July 1884 in Aschaffenburg/Bavaria – 17 October 1931 in Hamburg) was a German neurologist who worked in the field of neuropathology.
Agnosticism is the view that the existence of God  or the supernatural is unknown or unknowable. (page 56 in 1967 edition)
Argon is a chemical element with symbol Ar and atomic number 18. It is in group 18 of the periodic table and is a noble gas.
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in combination with sulfur and metals, but also as a pure elemental crystal.
Antimony is a chemical element with symbol Sb (from ) and atomic number 51. A lustrous gray metalloid, it is found in nature mainly as the sulfide mineral stibnite (Sb2S3).
Actinium is a chemical element with symbol Ac and atomic number 89.  Actinium gave the name to the actinide series, a group of 15 similar elements between actinium and lawrencium in the periodic table.
Americium is a radioactive chemical element with symbol Am and atomic number 95. It is a transuranic member of the actinide series, in the periodic table located under the lanthanide element europium, and thus by analogy was named after the Americas.
Astatine is a radioactive chemical element with symbol At and atomic number 85. It is the rarest naturally occurring element on the Earth's crust.
An atom is the smallest constituent unit of ordinary matter that has the properties of a chemical element. Every solid, liquid, gas, and plasma is composed of neutral or ionized atoms.
Arable land (from Latin [&quot;able to be plow]ed&quot;) is, according to one definition,  land capable of being [[ploughed and used to grow crops.Oxford English Dictionary,  &quot;arable, adj.
Aluminium or aluminum is a chemical element with symbol Al and atomic number 13. It is a silvery-white, soft, nonmagnetic, ductile metal in the boron group.
Advanced Chemistry is a German hip hop group from Heidelberg, a scenic city in Baden-Württemberg, South Germany. Advanced Chemistry was founded in 1987 by Toni L, Linguist, Gee-One, DJ Mike MD (Mike Dippon) and MC Torch.
An archipelago ( ), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster or collection of islands, or sometimes a sea containing a small number of scattered islands.
An author is narrowly defined as the originator of any written work and can thus also be described as a writer (with any distinction primarily being an implication that an author is a writer of one or more major works, such as books or plays).  More broadly defined, an author is &quot;the person who originated or gave existence to anything&quot; and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created.
N.S.
Angst means fear or anxiety (anguish is its Latinate equivalent, and anxious, anxiety are of similar origin). The word angst was introduced into English from the Danish, Norwegian and Dutch word angst and the German word Angst.
Anxiety is an emotion characterized by an unpleasant state of inner turmoil, often accompanied by nervous behavior, such as pacing back and forth, somatic complaints, and rumination. It is the subjectively unpleasant feelings of dread over anticipated events, such as the feeling of imminent death.
An axiom or postulate is a statement that is taken to be true, to serve as a premise or starting point for further reasoning and arguments. The word comes from the Greek axíōma (}}) 'that which is thought worthy or fit' or 'that which commends itself as evident.
Alpha (uppercase , lowercase ; , álpha, modern pronunciation álfa) is the first letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals it has a value of 1.
AM may refer to:
Campanian – recent
Apiaceae or Umbelliferae, is a family of mostly aromatic flowering plants named after the type genus Apium and commonly known as the celery, carrot or parsley family. It is the 16th-largest family of flowering plants, with more than 3,700 species in 434 generaStevens, P.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων áxōn, axis), is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the neuron's cell body. Axons are also known as nerve fibers.
The ancient Aramaic alphabet is adapted from the Phoenician alphabet and became distinctive from it by the 8th century BCE. It was used to write the Aramaic language and had displaced the Paleo-Hebrew alphabet, itself a derivative of the Phoenician alphabet, for the writing of Hebrew.
&quot;American shot&quot; is a translation of a phrase from French film criticism, &quot;plan américain&quot; and refers to a medium-long (&quot;knee&quot;) film shot of a group of characters, who are arranged so that all are visible to the camera. The usual arrangement is for the actors to stand in an irregular line from one side of the screen to the other, with the actors at the end coming forward a little and standing more in profile than the others.
Abdul Alhazred is a fictional character created by American horror writer H. P.
August William Derleth (February 24, 1909 – July 4, 1971) was an American writer and anthologist. Though best remembered as the first book publisher of the writings of H.
, , ,
Applied ethics is the branch of ethics concerned with the analysis of particular moral issues in private and public life.&quot;Applied Ethics&quot; Oxford Bibliographies.
thumb|The absolute value of a number may be thought of as its distance from zero.
An analog signal  is any continuous signal for which the time varying feature (variable) of the signal is a representation of some other time varying quantity, i.e.
Late Cretaceous - Recent
Hercule Poirot (; ) is a fictional Belgian detective, created by Agatha Christie. Poirot is one of Christie's most famous and long-lived characters, appearing in 33 novels, one play (Black Coffee), and more than 50 short stories published between 1920 and 1975.
Jane Marple, usually referred to as Miss Marple, is a fictional character appearing in 12 of Agatha Christie's crime novels and in 20 short stories. Miss Marple is an elderly spinster who lives in the village of St.
APR}}
Aug}}
Aaron  ′ahărōn, , Greek (Septuagint): [often called Aaron the priest] () and once Aaron the [[Levite () (Exodus 4:14).|group=&quot;note&quot;}} (;  or ) is a prophet, high priest, and the brother of Moses in the Abrahamic religions (elder brother in the case of Judaism).
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
In chemistry, an alcohol is any organic compound in which the hydroxyl functional group (–OH) is bound to a saturated carbon atom. The term alcohol originally referred to the primary alcohol ethanol (ethyl alcohol), the predominant alcohol in alcoholic beverages.
In abstract algebra, an algebraically closed field F contains a root for every non-constant polynomial in F[x], the ring of polynomials in the variable x with coefficients in F.
==Events==
The aspect ratio of a geometric shape is the ratio of its sizes in different dimensions. For example, the aspect ratio of a rectangle is the ratio of its longer side to its shorter sidethe ratio of width to height, when the rectangle is oriented as a &quot;landscape&quot;.
Auto racing (also known as car racing, motor racingMacmillan Dictionary or automobile racing) is a sport involving the racing of automobiles for competition.
Anarcho-capitalism is a political philosophy and school of anarchist thought that advocates the elimination of the state in favor of self-ownership, private property, and free markets. Anarcho-capitalists hold that, in the absence of statute (law by centralized decrees and legislation), society tends to contractually self-regulate and civilize through the discipline of the free market (in what its proponents describe as a voluntary society).
==Events==
The Austrian School is a school of economic thought that is based on methodological individualism – the concept that social phenomena result from the motivations and actions of individuals.Carl Menger, Principles of Economics, online at https://www.
An abscess () is a collection of pus that has built up within the tissue of the body. Signs and symptoms of abscesses include redness, pain, warmth, and swelling.
Abatement refers generally to a lessening, diminution, reduction, or moderation; specifically, it may refer to:
The Amateur}}
In Christianity, All Souls' Day commemorates All Souls, the Holy Souls, or the Faithful Departed; that is, the souls of Christians who have died. Observing Christians typically remember deceased relatives on the day.
Algorithms for calculating variance play a major role in computational statistics. A key difficulty in the design of good algorithms for this problem is that formulas for the variance may involve sums of squares, which can lead to numerical instability as well as to arithmetic overflow when dealing with large values.
}}
The politics of Antigua and Barbuda takes place in a framework of a unitary parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, wherein the Sovereign of Antigua and Barbuda is the head of state, appointing a Governor-General to act as vice-regal representative in the nation. A Prime Minister is appointed by the Governor-General as the head of government, and of a multi-party system; the Prime Minister advises the Governor-General on the appointment of a Council of Ministers.
This article is about communications systems in Antigua and Barbuda.
The Antigua and Barbuda Defence Force is the armed force of Antigua and Barbuda. The ABDF has responsibility for several different roles: internal security, prevention of drug smuggling, the protection and support of fishing rights, prevention of marine pollution, search and rescue, ceremonial duties, assistance to government programs, provision of relief during natural disasters, assistance in the maintenance of essential services, and support of the police in maintaining law and order.
Antisemitism (also spelled anti-Semitism or anti-semitism) is hostility to, prejudice, or discrimination against Jews.Definition from the Oxford dictionaryanti-Semitism – Definition and More from the Merriam-Webster Dictionary.
$63,98 billion (2016) PPP:  $169,3 billion (2016)Rank: 67th
Azerbaijan is situated in the Caucasus region of Eurasia.  Three physical features dominate Azerbaijan: the Caspian Sea, whose shoreline forms a natural boundary to the east; the Greater Caucasus mountain range to the north; and the extensive flatlands at the country's center.
Azerbaijan is a member of the United Nations, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, NATO's Partnership for Peace, the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, the World Health Organization, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; the Council of Europe, CFE Treaty, the Community of Democracies; the International Monetary Fund; and the World Bank.
thumb|300px|Map of Armenia
The demographics of Armenia is about the demographic features of the population of Armenia, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Armenia takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President is the head of state and the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$10.529 billion (nominal, 2015)$25.
This article considers transport in Armenia. For Soviet transportation, see Transport in the Soviet Union.
Armenia has maintained a policy of complementarism by trying to have positive and friendly relations with Iran, Russia, and the West, including the United States and the European Union since its independence.– &quot;Armenian Foreign Policy Between Russia, Iran And U.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of American Samoa, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of American Samoa takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic dependency, whereby the Governor is the head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. American Samoa is an unincorporated and unorganized territory of the United States, administered by the Office of Insular Affairs, U.
The economy of American Samoa is a traditional Polynesian economy in which more than 90% of the land is communally owned. Economic activity is strongly linked to the United States, with which American Samoa conducts the great bulk of its foreign trade.
==Events==
)
Analysis is the process of breaking a complex topic or substance into smaller parts in order to gain a better understanding of it. The technique has been applied in the study of mathematics and logic since before Aristotle (384–322 B.
America's National Game is a book by Albert Spalding, published in 1911 detailing the early history of the sport of baseball. Much of the story is told first-hand, since Spalding had been involved in the game, first as a player and later an administrator, since the 1850s.
Amplitude modulation (AM) is a modulation technique used in electronic communication, most commonly for transmitting information via a radio carrier wave. In amplitude modulation, the amplitude (signal strength) of the carrier wave is varied in proportion to the waveform being transmitted.
Abbot, meaning father, is an ecclesiastical title given to the male head of a monastery in various traditions, including Christianity. The office may also be given as an honorary title to a clergyman who is not the head of a monastery.
thumb|[[Hyundai's car assembly line]]
==Events==
The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's oceans.
An algebraic number is any complex number that is a root of a non-zero polynomial in one variable with rational coefficients (or equivalently – by clearing denominators – with integer coefficients). All integers and rational numbers are algebraic, as are all roots of integers.
In mathematics, an automorphism is an isomorphism from a mathematical object to itself. It is, in some sense, a symmetry of the object, and a way of mapping the object to itself while preserving all of its structure.
Accordions (from 19th century German Akkordeon, from Akkord—&quot;musical chord, concord of sounds&quot;accordion, entry in Online Etymology Dictionary) are a family of box-shaped musical instruments of the bellows-driven free-reed aerophone type, colloquially referred to as a squeezebox. A person who plays the accordion is called an accordionist.
Artificial intelligence (AI, also machine intelligence, MI) is intelligence exhibited by machines, rather than humans or other animals (natural intelligence, NI). In computer science, the field of AI research defines itself as the study of &quot;intelligent agents&quot;: any device that perceives its environment and takes actions that maximize its chance of success at some goal.
This page lists some links to ancient philosophy. In Western philosophy, the spread of Christianity in the Roman Empire marked the ending of Hellenistic philosophy and ushered in the beginnings of Medieval philosophy, whereas in Eastern philosophy, the spread of Islam through the Arab Empire marked the end of Old Iranian philosophy and ushered in the beginnings of early Islamic philosophy.
BC
APL is an abbreviation, acronym, or initialism that may refer to:
An architect is someone who plans, designs, and reviews the construction of buildings.  To practice architecture means to provide services in connection with the design of buildings and the space within the site surrounding the buildings, that have as their principal purpose human occupancy or use.
An abbreviation (from Latin brevis, meaning short) is a shortened form of a word or phrase.  It consists of a group of letters taken from the word or phrase.
Aphrodite ( ;  Aphrodite) is the Greek goddess of love, beauty, pleasure, and procreation. She is identified with the planet Venus; her Roman equivalent is the goddess .
==Events==
In mathematics, a binary relation R on a set X is anti-symmetric if there is no pair of distinct elements of X each of which is related by R to the other. More formally, R is anti-symmetric precisely if for all a and b in X
The afterlife (also referred to as life after death or the hereafter) is the belief that an essential part of an individual's identity or consciousness continues to exist after the death of the body. According to various ideas about the afterlife, the essential aspect of the individual that lives on after death may be some partial element, or the entire soul or spirit, of an individual, which carries with it and may confer personal identity or, on the contrary, may not, as in Indian nirvana.
thumb|right|300px|Illustration of the use of [[interferometry in the optical wavelength range to determine precise positions of stars. Courtesy NASA/JPL-Caltech]]
Athena (; Attic Greek: , Athēnā, or , Athēnaia; Epic: , Athēnaiē; Doric: , Athānā) or Athene (; Ionic: , Athēnē), often given the epithet Pallas (; ), is the goddess of wisdom, craft, and warMerriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature, s.v.
The Amber Diceless Roleplaying Game is a role-playing game created and written by Erick Wujcik, set in the fictional universe created by author Roger Zelazny for his Chronicles of Amber. The game is unusual in that no dice are used in resolving conflicts or player actions; instead a simple diceless system of comparative ability, and narrative description of the action by the players and gamemaster, is used to determine how situations are resolved.
Athene or Athena is the shrewd companion of heroes and the goddess of heroic endeavour in Greek mythology.
An alloy is a mixture of metals or a mixture of a metal and another element. Alloys are defined by a metallic bonding character.
Throughout history, forms of art have gone through periodic abrupt changes called artistic revolutions.  Movements have come to an end to be replaced by a new movement markedly different in striking ways.
Agrarianism is a social philosophy or political philosophy which values rural society as superior to urban society, the independent farmer as superior to the paid worker, and sees farming as a way of life that can shape the ideal social values.Thompson, Paul.
Atomic may refer to:
In  planar geometry, an angle is the figure formed by two rays, called the sides of the angle, sharing a common endpoint, called the vertex of the angle.
ASA}}
thumb|Artificial omni-directional sound source in an [[anechoic chamber]]
Atomic physics is the field of physics that studies atoms as an isolated system of electrons and an atomic nucleus. It is primarily concerned with the arrangement of electrons around the nucleus and
In computing, an applet is any small application that performs one specific task that runs within the scope of a dedicated widget engine or a larger program, often as a plug-in.&quot;AskOxford: applet&quot;, Oxford Dictionaries.
}}
In quantum mechanics, an atomic orbital is a mathematical function that describes the wave-like behavior of either one electron or a pair of electrons in an atom. This function can be used to calculate the probability of finding any electron of an atom in any specific region around the atom's nucleus.
thumbnail|300px|The structure of an alpha amino acid in its un-ionized form
Area is the quantity that expresses the extent of a two-dimensional figure or shape, or planar lamina, in the plane. Surface area is its analog on the two-dimensional surface of a  three-dimensional object.
An artist is a person engaged in an activity related to creating art, practicing the arts, or demonstrating an art. The common usage in both everyday speech and academic discourse is a practitioner in the visual arts only.
Actaeon (;  Aktaion),He was sometimes called Actaeus (), as in the poetic fragment quoted at Pseudo-Apollodorus, Bibliotheca 3.4.
Anglicanism is a tradition within Christianity comprising the Church of England and churches which are historically tied to it or hold similar beliefs, worship practices and church structures. The word Anglican originates in ecclesia anglicana, a medieval Latin phrase dating to the Magna Carta (1215)In the forms Anglicana ecclesia and Ecclesie Anglicane.
This article is about communications systems in Anguilla.
}}
Acoustic theory is a scientific field that relates to the description of sound waves. It derives from fluid dynamics.
&quot; and &quot;Asoka&quot; redirect here. For other uses, see Ashoka (disambiguation)}}
The meaning of the word American in the English language varies according to the historical, geographical, and political context in which it is used. American is derived from America, a term originally denoting all of the New World (also called the Americas). In some expressions, it retains this Pan-American sense, but its usage has evolved over time and, for various historical reasons, the word came to denote people or things specifically from the United States of America.
DDC-I Score
In Christianity, Arianism is a Christological concept which asserts the belief that Jesus Christ is the Son of God who was begotten by God the Father at a point in time, is distinct from the Father and is therefore subordinate to the Father.https://ehrmanblog.
==Events==
==Events==
– Broken link!
==Events==
An argot (; from French argot  'slang') is a secret language used by various groups—e.g.
Anisotropy ,  is the property of being directionally dependent, which implies different properties in different directions, as opposed to isotropy. It can be defined as a difference, when measured along different axes, in a material's physical or mechanical properties (absorbance, refractive index, conductivity, tensile strength, etc.
Alpha decay or α-decay is a type of radioactive decay in which an atomic nucleus emits an alpha particle (helium nucleus) and thereby transforms or 'decays' into an atom with a mass number that is reduced by four and an atomic number that is reduced by two. An alpha particle is identical to the nucleus of a helium-4 atom, which consists of two protons and two neutrons.
Extreme poverty, absolute poverty, destitution, or penury, was originally defined by the United Nations in 1995 as &quot;a condition characterized by severe deprivation of basic human needs, including food, safe drinking water, sanitation facilities, health, shelter, education and information. It depends not only on income but also on access to services.
The Analytical Engine was a proposed mechanical general-purpose computer designed by English mathematician and computer pioneer Charles Babbage. It was first described in 1837 as the successor to Babbage's difference engine, a design for a mechanical computer.
Gaius Octavius|Gaius Julius Caesar}}
Transport in Antarctica has transformed from explorers crossing the isolated remote area of Antarctica by foot to a more open area due to human technologies enabling more convenient and faster transport, predominantly by air and water, as well as land.
right|float|frame|Physiographic regions in Alabama
border
Apocrypha are works, usually written, of unknown authorship or of doubtful origin.Little, Williams.
}}
thumb|Eufemia Szaniawska, Abbess of the Benedictine Monastery in [[Nesvizh|Nieśwież with a crosier, c. 1768, National Museum in Warsaw]]
The term abdominal surgery broadly covers surgical procedures that involve opening the abdomen.  Surgery of each abdominal organ is dealt with separately in connection with the description of that organ (see stomach, kidney, liver, etc.
Abduction may refer to:
Arminianism is based on theological ideas of the Dutch Reformed theologian Jacobus Arminius (1560–1609) and his historic supporters known as Remonstrants. His teachings held to the five solae of the Reformation, but they were distinct from particular teachings of Martin Luther, Huldrych Zwingli, John Calvin, and other Protestant Reformers.
soft rock
In mathematics, the phrase &quot;almost all&quot; has a number of specialised uses which extend its intuitive meaning.
An aromatic hydrocarbon or areneDefinition IUPAC Gold Book Link (or sometimes aryl hydrocarbon)Mechanisms of Activation of the Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor by Maria Backlund, Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institutet is a hydrocarbon with sigma bonds and delocalized pi electrons between carbon atoms forming a circle. In contrast, aliphatic hydrocarbons lack this delocalization.
An abbey is a complex of buildings used by members of a religious order under the governance of an abbot or abbess. It provides a place for religious activities, work and housing of Christian monks and nuns.
The Annales School () is a group of historians associated with a style of historiography developed by French historians in the 20th century to stress long-term social history. It is named after its scholarly journal Annales d'histoire économique et sociale, which remains the main source of scholarship, along with many books and monographs.
In particle physics, antimatter is a material composed of the antiparticle &quot;partners&quot; to the corresponding  particles of ordinary matter.  A particle and its antiparticle have the same mass as one another, but opposite electric charge and other quantum numbers.
Casa Milà (, ), popularly known as La Pedrera or &quot;open quarry&quot;, a reference to its unconventional rough-hewn appearance, is a modernist building in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. It was the last private residence designed by architect Antoni Gaudí and was built between 1906 and 1910.
thumb|alt=Diagram illustrating the particles and antiparticles of electron, neutron and proton, as well as their &quot;size&quot; (not to scale). It is easier to identify them by looking at the total mass of both the antiparticle and particle.
This day marks the approximate midpoint of summer in the Northern Hemisphere and of winter in the Southern Hemisphere (starting the season at the June solstice).
==Events==
==Events==
In mathematics, the associative property
The Atanasoff–Berry computer (ABC) was the first automatic electronic digital computer, an early electronic digital computing device that has remained somewhat obscure. The ABC's priority is debated among historians of computer technology, because it was neither programmable, nor Turing-complete.
thumb|Anchor of the [[Amoco Cadiz in Portsall, north-west Brittany, France]]
An anagram is direct word switch or word play, the result of rearranging the letters of a word or phrase to produce a new word or phrase, using all the original letters exactly once; for example, the word anagram can be rearranged into &quot;nag a ram&quot;.
Amethyst is a violet variety of quartz often used in jewelry.
In the ancient Greek myths, ambrosia (, ) is sometimes the food or drink of the Greek gods, often depicted as conferring longevity or immortality upon whoever consumed it. It was brought to the gods in Olympus by doves.
Ambracia (; , occasionally , Ampracia), was a city of ancient Greece on the site of modern Arta. It was founded as a Corinthian colony in the 7th century BC and was situated about 7 miles from the Ambracian Gulf, on a bend of the navigable river Arachthos (or Aratthus), in the midst of a fertile wooded plain.
Amber is fossilized tree resin, which has been appreciated for its color and natural beauty since Neolithic times. Much valued from antiquity to the present as a gemstone, amber is made into a variety of decorative objects.
Amalaric (Gothic: Amalareiks), or in Spanish and Portuguese, Amalarico, (502–531) was king of the Visigoths from 511 until his death in battle in 531. He was a son of king Alaric II and his first wife Theodegotha, daughter of Theoderic the Great King of the Ostrogoths.
thumb|Eliana Burki ([[:de:Eliana Burki|de) playing the alphorn at the Bardentreffen festival in Nuremberg 2009.]]
An army (from Latin arma &quot;arms, weapons&quot; via Old French armée, &quot;armed&quot; (feminine)) or ground force is a fighting force that fights primarily on land. In the broadest sense, it is the land-based military branch, service branch or armed service of a nation or state.
Alder is the common name of a genus of flowering plants (Alnus) belonging to the birch family Betulaceae. The genus comprises about 35 species of monoecious trees and shrubs, a few reaching a large size, distributed throughout the north temperate zone with a few species extending into Central America, as well as the northern and southern Andes.
Alabaster is a mineral or rock that is soft and often used for carving, as well as being processed for plaster powder. The term is used in different ways by archaeologists and the stone processing industry on the one hand, and geologists on the other.
BC
ASIC is an integrated circuit  developed for a particular use, as opposed to a general-purpose device.
thumb|225px|The bottom of page 53 of [[Olney Hymns shows the first stanza of the hymn beginning &quot;Amazing Grace!&quot;]]
(as Control Video Corporation)  2009 (as AOL Inc.)
The terms  (AD) and before ChristThe word &quot;before&quot; is often capitalized, but this is considered incorrect by many authorities and either not mentioned in major dictionaries or only listed as an alternative. Wikipedia's manual of style also prescribes lowercase.
AV and variants may refer to:
 735
In organic chemistry, amines (, ) are compounds and functional groups that contain a basic nitrogen atom with a lone pair. Amines are formally derivatives of ammonia, wherein one or more hydrogen atoms have been replaced by a substituent such as an alkyl or aryl group (these may respectively be called alkylamines and arylamines; amines in which both types of substituent are attached to one nitrogen atom may be called alkylarylamines).
==Events==
==Events==
Absolute zero is the lower limit of the thermodynamic temperature scale, a state at which the enthalpy and entropy of a cooled ideal gas reaches its minimum value, taken as 0. The theoretical temperature is determined by extrapolating the ideal gas law; by international agreement, absolute zero is taken as −273.
An adiabatic process is one that occurs without transfer of heat or matter between a thermodynamic system and its surroundings. In an adiabatic process, energy is transferred to its surroundings only as work..
An amide ( or  or ),http://www.collinsdictionary.
Animism (from Latin , &quot;breath, spirit, life&quot;). is the religious belief that objects, places, and creatures all possess a distinct spiritual essence.
Antonio Lucio Vivaldi (; 4 March 1678 – 28 July 1741) was an Italianhttp://www.britannica.
Abraxas (Gk. ΑΒΡΑΞΑΣ, variant form Abrasax, ΑΒΡΑΣΑΞ) was a word of mystic meaning in the system of the Gnostic Basilides, being there applied to the &quot;Great Archon&quot; (Gk.
Absalom or Avshalom () according to the Hebrew Bible was the third son of David, King of Israel with Maachah, daughter of Talmai, King of Geshur., .
Abydos may mean:
Abydos}}
==Events==
Acacia s.l.
==Events==
*Dyalog APL
ALGOL (short for Algorithmic Language)The name of this language family is sometimes given in mixed case (Algol 60), and sometimes in all uppercase (ALGOL68). For simplicity this article uses ALGOL.
In Norse religion, Asgard (; &quot;Enclosure of the Æsir&quot;) is one of the Nine Worlds and home to the Æsir tribe of gods. It is surrounded by an incomplete wall attributed to a Hrimthurs riding the stallion Svaðilfari, according to Gylfaginning.
The Apollo program, also known as Project Apollo, was the third United States human spaceflight program carried out by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), which accomplished landing the first humans on the Moon from 1969 to 1972. First conceived during Dwight D.
In criminal and civil law, assault is an attempt to initiate harmful or offensive contact with a person, or a threat to do so.  It is distinct from battery, which refers to the actual achievement of such contact.
Alfheim (, &quot;Land Of The Elves&quot; or &quot;Elfland&quot;), also called Ljosalfheim (Ljósálf[a]heimr, &quot;home of the light-elves&quot;), is one of the Nine Worlds and home of the Light Elves in Norse mythology.
thumb|300px|upright|&quot;Hœnir, Lóðurr and Odin create Askr and Embla&quot; (1895) by [[Lorenz Frølich.]]
Alain de Lille (or Alanus ab Insulis) ( 11281202/03) was a French theologian and poet. He was born in Lille, some time before 1128.
The Alemanni (also Alamanni;The spelling with &quot;e&quot; is used in Encyc. Brit.
}}
==Events==
It is the peak of the Perseid meteor shower. It is also known as the &quot;Glorious Twelfth&quot; in the United Kingdom, as it marks the traditional start of the grouse shooting season.
ALP}}
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
The Dodo is a fictional character appearing in Chapters 2 and 3 of the book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson). The Dodo is a caricature of the author.
A Lory is any of a number of small to medium-sized species of arboreal parrots
Albert may refer to:
Albert I may refer to:
Albert II may refer to:
Albert III may refer to:
}}
Cardinal Albert of Brandenburg (; 28 June 149024 September 1545) was Elector and Archbishop of Mainz from 1514 to 1545, and Archbishop of Magdeburg from 1513 to 1545.
Albert of Hohenzollern}}
==Events==
wide
In the first and second Books of Samuel, Abner (Hebrew אֲבִינֵר ’Avnêr meaning &quot;Father's Light&quot;) was cousin to Saul and commander-in-chief of his army (1 Samuel 14:50, 20:25). He is often referred to as Avner Ben Ner, meaning, the son of Ner.
}}
1 October 1730
}}
An acropolis (Ancient Greek: ἀκρόπολις, tr. Akrópolis; from ákros (άκρος) or ákron (άκρον) &quot;highest, topmost, outermost&quot; and pólis &quot;city&quot;; plural in English: acropoles, acropoleis or acropolises), ,  .
Adder may refer to:
In Greco-Roman mythology, Aeneas (; Greek: Αἰνείας, Aineías, possibly derived from Greek  meaning &quot;praised&quot;) was a Trojan hero, the son of the prince Anchises and the goddess Venus (Aphrodite). His father was a first cousin of King Priam of Troy (both being grandsons of Ilus, founder of Troy), making Aeneas a second cousin to Priam's children (such as Hector and Paris).
==Events==
Amaranthus, collectively known as amaranth, plant family|url = http://www.britannica.
In Greek mythology, Agamemnon (;  from *Ἀγαμέδμων [from ἄγαν, &quot;very much&quot; and [&quot;think on&quot;,R. S.
https://www.britannica.
Agasias was the name of several different people in Classical history, including two different Greek sculptors.
Agathon (; , gen.: Ἀγάθωνος;  BC) was an Athenian tragic poet whose works have been lost.
Agesilaus II (;  Agesilaos; c. 444 – c.
Agis or AGIS may refer to:
Antonio Agliardi (4 September 1832 – 19 March 1915) was an Italian Roman Catholic Cardinal, archbishop, and papal diplomat.
Vipsania Agrippina, most commonly known as Agrippina Major or Agrippina the Elder (Major Latin for the elder, Classical Latin: AGRIPPINA•GERMANICI, (edd.), Prosopographia Imperii Romani saeculi I, II et III (PIR), Berlin, 1933 - V 463 14 BC – 17 October AD 33), was a distinguished and prominent Roman woman of the first century.
Julia Agrippina, most commonly referred to as Agrippina Minor or Agrippina the Younger, and after AD 50 known as Julia Augusta Agrippina (Minor; Latin for the &quot;younger&quot;; (edd.), Prosopographia Imperii Romani saeculi I, II et III (PIR), Berlin, 1933 – I 641 6 November 15 – 19/23 March 59), was a Roman Empress and one of the more prominent women in the Julio-Claudian dynasty.
American Chinese cuisine is a style of Chinese cuisine developed by Americans of Chinese descent. The dishes served in many North American Chinese restaurants are adapted to American tastes and often differ significantly from those found in China.
Ahenobarbus was a cognomen used by a plebeian branch of the gens Domitia in the late Roman Republic and early Empire.  The name means &quot;red-beard&quot; (literally, &quot;bronze-beard&quot;) in Latin.
Ailanthus (;Sunset Western Garden Book, 1995:606–607 derived from ailanto, an Ambonese word probably meaning &quot;tree of the gods&quot; or &quot;tree of heaven&quot;) is a genus of trees belonging to the family Simaroubaceae, in the order Sapindales (formerly Rutales or Geraniales). The genus is native from east Asia south to northern Australasia.
Aimoin (), French chronicler, was born at Villefranche-de-Longchat about 960, and in early life entered the monastery of Fleury, where he became a monk and passed the greater part of his life. His chief work is a Historia Francorum, or Libri V.
Ajax ( Aias) was a Greek mythological hero, son of Oileus, the king of Locris.  He was called the &quot;lesser&quot; or &quot;Locrian&quot; Ajax,Homer, Iliad  ii.
Ajax or Aias ( or ;  , gen. Αἴαντος Aiantos) is a mythological Greek hero, the son of King Telamon and Periboea, and the half-brother of Teucer.
Ajax may refer to:
Alaric II (August 507) — from Gothic: *Alareiks II, also known as Alarik, Alarich, and Alarico in Spanish and Portuguese or Alaricus in Latin — succeeded his father Euric as king of the Visigoths in Toulouse on December 28, 484.Herwig Wolfram, History of the Goths, translated by Thomas J.
Albertus Magnus,. O.
Alboin (530sJune 28, 572) was king of the Lombards from about 560 until 572. During his reign the Lombards ended their migrations by settling in Italy, the northern part of which Alboin conquered between 569 and 572.
Afonso de Albuquerque, Duke of Goa (;  1453 – 16 December 1515) (also spelled Aphonso or Alfonso), was a Portuguese general, a &quot;great conqueror&quot;,“ALBUQUERQUE, ALFONSO DE”, Vol. I, Fasc.
Alcaeus of Mytilene (; , Alkaios; c. 620 – 6th century BC) was a lyric poet from the Greek island of Lesbos who is credited with inventing the Alcaic stanza.
Alcamenes () was an ancient Greek sculptor of Lemnos and Athens,  who flourished in the 2nd half of the 5th century BC. He was a younger contemporary of Phidias and noted for the delicacy and finish of his works, among which a Hephaestus and an Aphrodite &quot;of the Gardens&quot; were conspicuous.
In Greek mythology, Alcmene  or Alcmena  ( or Ἀλκμάνα [Doric]) was the wife of Amphitryon by whom she bore two children, Iphicles and Laonome. She is, however, better known as the mother of Heracles whose father was the god Zeus.
Alcidamas (), of Elaea, in Aeolis, Greek sophist and rhetorician, flourished in the 4th century BC.
Aldine Press was the printing office started by Aldus Manutius in 1494 in Venice, from which were issued the celebrated Aldine editions of the classics (Latin and Greek masterpieces plus a few more modern works). The first book that was dated and printed under his name appeared in 1495.
Ealdred (or Aldred; died 11 September 1069) was Abbot of Tavistock, Bishop of Worcester, and Archbishop of York in Anglo-Saxon England. He was related to a number of other ecclesiastics of the period.
Alexander I of Epirus (, 370 BC – 331 BC), also known as Alexander Molossus (), was a king of Epirus (350–331 BC) of the Aeacid dynasty.
Alexander I Balas (), ruler of the Greek Seleucid kingdom in 150–146 BC. Alexander defeated his brother Demetrius Soter for the crown in 150 BC.
Alexander () was tagus or despot of Pherae in Thessaly, and ruled from 369 BC to 358 BC.
right|thumb|250px|Illustration of silver coin of Alexander
Alexander I (medieval Gaelic: Alaxandair mac Maíl Coluim; modern Gaelic: Alasdair mac Mhaol Chaluim; c. 1078 – 23 April 1124), posthumously nicknamed The Fierce,This nickname however is not attested for another three centuries, in the work of Andrew of Wyntoun.
6 July 1249
11 June 1903
Alexander III  (Medieval Gaelic: Alaxandair mac Alaxandair; Modern Gaelic: Alasdair mac Alasdair) (4 September 1241 – 19 March 1286) was King of Scots from 1249 to his death.
Alexander of Greece may refer to:
Alexander of Aphrodisias (; fl. 200 AD) was a Peripatetic philosopher and the most celebrated of the Ancient Greek commentators on the writings of Aristotle.
18/19 March 235
or
Alexander I may refer to:
Alexander II may refer to:
Alexander III may refer to:
Alexander Aetolus () was a Greek poet and grammarian, the only known representative of Aetolian poetry.
Alexander IV may refer to:
Alexander V may refer to:
The Alexandrists were a school of Renaissance philosophers who, in the great controversy on the subject of personal immortality, adopted the explanation of the De Anima given by Alexander of Aphrodisias.
15 August 1118
Alexis  (; c. 375 – c.
October 1183
border
==Events==
==Events==
An antipope () is a person who, in opposition to the one who is generally seen as the legitimately elected Pope, makes a significantly accepted competing claim to be the Pope,&quot;One who opposes the legitimately elected bishop of Rome, endeavours to secure the papal throne, and to some degree succeeds materially in the attempt&quot; (Encyclopædia Britannica: Antipope). the Bishop of Rome and leader of the Catholic Church.
Aquaculture (less commonly spelled aquiculture), also known as aquafarming, is the farming of fish, crustaceans, molluscs, aquatic plants, algae, and other aquatic organisms. Aquaculture involves cultivating freshwater and saltwater populations under controlled conditions, and can be contrasted with commercial fishing, which is the harvesting of wild fish.
right|thumb|upright=1.4|This image illustrates part of the [[Mandelbrot set fractal.
“Hymn to Proserpine” is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in Poems and Ballads in 1866.  The poem is addressed to the goddess Proserpina, the Roman equivalent of Persephone, but laments the rise of Christianity for displacing the pagan goddess and her pantheon.
&quot;The Triumph of Time&quot; is a poem by Algernon Charles Swinburne, published in Poems and Ballads in 1866. It is in adapted ottava rima and is full of elaborate use of literary devices, particularly alliteration.
==Events==
Alfred the Great (}} Ælfrǣd}}}}, &quot;elf counsel&quot; or &quot;wise elf&quot;; 849 – 26 October 899) was King of Wessex from 871 to 899.
Alger of Liège (1055–1131), known also as Alger of Cluny and Algerus Magister, was a learned clergyman from Liège author of several notable works.
Dzayer tamaneɣt
965}} CE..
Murabitun}}
Aloe ( or ), also written Aloë, is a genus containing over 500 species of flowering succulent plants.The Plant List (2010).
Alyattes, king of Lydia (619–560 BC), considered to be the founder of the Lydian empire, was the son of Sadyattes, of the house of the Mermnadae.
The age of consent is the age at which a person is considered to be legally competent to consent to sexual acts, and is thus the minimum age of a person with whom another person is legally permitted to engage in sexual activity. The distinguishing aspect of the age of consent laws is that the person below the minimum age is regarded as the victim, and their sex partner as the offender.
Alypius of Antioch was a geographer and a vicarius of Roman Britain, probably in the late 350s AD. He replaced Flavius Martinus after that vicarius' suicide.
Amalric of Bena (; ; died  1204–1207 AD) was a French theologian and sect leader, after whom the Amalricians are named.
–25)
–1325)
16 February 1279}}
28 May 1357
Afonso VI (; English: Alphonzo or Alphonse, Old Portuguese: Affonso; 21 August 164312 September 1683), known as &quot;the Victorious&quot; (), was the second King of Portugal and the Algarves of the House of Braganza from 1656 until his death. He was initially under the regency of his mother, Luisa of Medina-Sidonia, until 1662, when he removed her to a convent and took power with the help of his favourite, the Count of Castelo Melhor.
There has not been a monarch known as Alphonso or Alfonso I of Spain, the first king of that name of the unified Spain being Alfonso XII of Spain (1874–1885).
Alfonso II of Asturias (842), nicknamed the Chaste (), was the king of Asturias during two different periods: first in the year 783 and later from 791 until his death in 842. Upon his death, Nepociano, a family member of undetermined relation, attempted to usurp the crown in place of the future Ramiro I.
Amara Sinha (or Amara Simha, IAST: Amarasiṃha) (c. CE 375) was a Sanskrit grammarian and poet, of whose personal history hardly anything is known.
Juan Carlos I
Amaryllis (Brenzel, K.N.
Alfonso IV, called the Kind (also the Gentle or the Nice, ) (2 November 1299 – 24 January 1336) was the King of AragonO'Callaghan,  Joseph F.,A History of Medieval Spain, (Cornell University Press, 1975), 408.
Alphons (Latinized Alphonsus, Adelphonsus, Adefonsus) is a male given name recorded from the 8th century (Alfonso I of Asturias, r. 739-757) in the Christian successor states of the Visigothic kingdom in the Iberian peninsula.
Alfonso I may refer to:
Amati is the last name of a family of Italian violin makers, who lived at Cremona from about 1538 to 1740.  Their importance is considered equal to those of the Bergonzi, Guarneri and Stradivari families.
Alfonso II may refer to:
Alfonso III may refer to:
Alfonso IV may refer to:
In Greek mythology, the Amazons (, , singular , ) were a tribe of women warriors. Apollonius Rhodius, at Argonautica, mentions that Amazons were the daughters of Ares and Harmonia (a nymph of the Akmonian Wood).
Alfonso V may refer to:
Ambergris ( or , , ), ambergrease or grey amber, is a solid, waxy, flammable substance of a dull grey or blackish colour, produced in the digestive system of sperm whales.
thumb|Statue of Ambiorix in [[Tongeren, Belgium]]
Alfonso VI may refer to:
right|thumb
Alredus, or Alfred of Beverley, (fl. 1143), English chronicler, was sacristan of the church of Beverley in the first half of the twelfth century.
==Events==
==Events==
Autpert Ambrose (Ambroise) () (ca. 730 – 784) was a Frankish Benedictine monk.
, Siddique-e-Akbar)
Ambrose Traversari, O.S.
Ambrosians are members of one of the religious brotherhoods which at various times since the 14th century have sprung up in and around Milan and also a 16th-century sect of Anabaptist Ambrosians.
__NOTOC__
Ambrosius Aurelianus (; Anglicised as Ambrose Aurelian and called  Aurelius Ambrosius in the Historia Regum Britanniae and elsewhere), was a war leader of the Romano-British who won an important battle against the Anglo-Saxons in the 5th century, according to Gildas.  He also appeared independently in the legends of the Britons, beginning with the 9th-century Historia Brittonum.
332 BC
Ammonius Hermiae (; ;  AD) was a Greek philosopher, and the son of the Neoplatonist philosophers Hermias and Aedesia. He was a pupil of Proclus in Athens, and taught at Alexandria for most of his life, writing commentaries on Plato, Aristotle, and other philosophers.
Ammonius Saccas (; ; fl. 3rd century AD) was a Greek philosopher from Alexandria who was often referred to as one of the founders of Neoplatonism.
The Book of Amos  is the third of the Twelve Minor Prophets in the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament and the second in the Greek Septuagint tradition. Amos, an older contemporary of Hosea and Isaiah,Harris, Stephen L.
In the Book of Exodus, Amram ( ; &quot;The people are exalted&quot;}}) is the husband of Jochebed and father of Aaron, Moses and Miriam.
pp 343-345
Amyntas III (Greek: Ἀμύντας Γ΄; died 370 BC) was king of the ancient Greek kingdom of Macedon in 393 BC, and again from 392 to 370 BC. He was the son of Arrhidaeus and grandson of Amyntas, one of the sons of Alexander I.
right|thumb|18th-century portrait, based on an ancient [[engraved gem.]]
BC
Anaxarchus (; ; c. 380 – c.
Ancyra is a genus of southeast Asian planthoppers. Members of the genus are well known for having a pair of prolonged filaments at the tips of the forewings that arise near a pair of small glossy spots; this creates the impression of a pair of antennae, with corresponding &quot;eyes&quot; (a remarkable case of automimicry).
Anastasius I or Anastasios I may refer to:
Anastasius II or Anastasios II could refer to:
Anaximenes of Lampsacus () (320 BC) was a Greek rhetorician and historian.
Anastasius (Latinized) or Anastasios () is derived from the Greek ἀνάστασις (anastasis) meaning &quot;resurrection&quot;. Its female form is Anastasia  ().
Milesian |Naturalism}}
Ancus Marcius (–617 BC ;Plutach's Parallel Lives vol. 1 p.
Alexander Anderson (, Aberdeen – , Paris) was a Scottish mathematician.
Andocides (;&quot;Andocides&quot;. The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed.
thumb|Triumphus Caesari, by Andreani, after a painting by Mantegna
1177
An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding is a book by the Scottish empiricist philosopher David Hume, published in English in 1748.See  via Google Books It was a revision of an earlier effort, Hume's A Treatise of Human Nature, published anonymously in London in 1739–40.
André de Longjumeau (also known as Andrew of Longjumeau in English) was a 13th-century Dominican missionary and diplomat and one of the most active Occidental diplomats in the East in the 13th century. He led two embassies to the Mongols: the first carried letters from Pope Innocent IV and the second bore gifts and letters from Louis IX of France to Güyük Khan.
}}
Andronikos I Komnenos (;  – 12 September 1185), usually Latinized as Andronicus I Comnenus, was Byzantine Emperor from 1183 to 1185. He was the son of Isaac Komnenos and the grandson of the emperor Alexios I.
thumb|300px|The Tower of Winds
Andronicus of Rhodes (, Andrónikos ho Rhódios; ; }} BC) was a Greek philosopher from Rhodes who was also the scholarch (head) of the Peripatetic school. He is most famous for publishing a new edition of the works of Aristotle that forms the basis of the texts that survive today.
Andronicus or Andronikos () is a classical Greek name. The name has the sense of &quot;male victor, warrior&quot;.
Ammianus Marcellinus (born 330, died 400) was a Roman soldier and historian who wrote the penultimate major historical account surviving from Antiquity (preceding Procopius). His work, known as the Res Gestae, chronicled in Latin the history of Rome from the accession of the emperor Nerva in 96 to the death of Valens at the Battle of Adrianople in 378, although only the sections covering the period 353–378 survive.
Arthritis is a term often used to mean any disorder that affects joints. Symptoms generally include joint pain and stiffness.
==Events==
Alfred may refer to:
==Events==
Arabic numerals, also called Hindu–Arabic numerals
==Events==
ABM or Abm may refer to:
A.D.
Alexander Selkirk (167613 December 1721) was a Scottish privateer and Royal Navy officer who spent more than four years as a castaway (1704–1709) after being marooned by his captain on an uninhabited island in the South Pacific Ocean. He survived that ordeal, but succumbed to tropical illness a dozen years later while serving aboard  off West Africa.
An anti-ballistic missile (ABM) is a surface-to-air missile designed to counter ballistic missiles (see missile defense). Ballistic missiles are used to deliver nuclear, chemical, biological or conventional warheads in a ballistic flight trajectory.
==Events==
==Events==
}}
ATP may refer to:
In Norse mythology, Ægir (Old Norse &quot;sea&quot;)Lindow (2001:47). is a sea jötunn associated with the ocean.
Antibiotics (From ancient Greek αντιβιοτικά, antiviotika) also called antibacterials, are a type of antimicrobial drug used in the treatment and prevention of bacterial infections. They may either kill or inhibit the growth of bacteria.
Asa}}
Actium (Greek: Ἄκτιον) was the name of an ancient town on a promontory of western Greece in northwestern Acarnania, at the mouth of the Ambracian Gulf). Actium is chiefly famous as the name given to the nearby naval Battle of Actium, in which Octavian won a decisive victory over Mark Antony on September 2, 31 BC.
==Events==
==Events==
In linguistics, an  allomorph is a variant form of a morpheme, that is, when a unit of meaning varies in sound without changing meaning. The term allomorph explains the comprehension of phonological variations for specific morphemes.
In phonology, an allophone (; from the , állos, &quot;other&quot; and φωνή, phōnē, &quot;voice, sound&quot;) is one of a set of multiple possible spoken sounds (or phones) or signs used to pronounce a single phoneme in a particular language. For example,  (as in pin) and  (as in spin) are allophones for the phoneme  in the English language.
An affix (in modern sense) is a morpheme that is attached to a word stem to form a new word or word form. Affixes may be derivational, like English -ness and pre-, or inflectional, like English plural -s and past tense -ed.
thumb|300px|Allegory of Music by [[Filippino Lippi (between 1475 and 1500): The &quot;Allegory of Music&quot; is a popular theme in painting. Lippi uses symbols popular during the High Renaissance, many of which refer to Greek mythology.
Allotropy or allotropism () is the property of some chemical elements to exist in two or more different forms, in the same physical state, known as allotropes of these elements. Allotropes are different structural modifications of an element; the atoms of the element are bonded together in a different manner.
Alberta's economy is the sum of all economic activity in Alberta, Canada's fourth largest province by population.  Although Alberta has a presence in many industries such as agriculture, forestry, education, tourism, finance, and manufacturing, the politics and culture of the province have been closely tied to the production of fossil energy since the 1940s.
BC}}
Alternative medicine – or fringe medicine – includes practices claimed to have the healing effects of medicine but which are disproven, unproven, impossible to prove, or are excessively harmful in relation to their effect; and where the scientific consensus is that the therapy does not, or cannot, work because the known laws of nature are violated by its basic claims; or where it is considered so much worse than conventional treatment that it would be unethical to offer as treatment. Alternative therapies or diagnoses are not part of medicine or science-based healthcare systems.
In geometry, an Archimedean solid is one of the 13 solids first enumerated by Archimedes.  They are the semi-regular convex polyhedrons composed of regular polygons meeting in identical vertices, excluding the 5 Platonic solids (which are composed of only one type of polygon) and excluding the prisms and antiprisms.
In geometry, an n-sided antiprism is a polyhedron composed of two parallel copies of some particular n-sided polygon, connected by an alternating band of triangles. Antiprisms are a subclass of the prismatoids and are a (degenerate) type of snub polyhedra.
thumb|right|A composite satellite image of Africa.
Africa is a continent comprising 63 political territories, representing the largest of the great southward projections from the main mass of Earth's surface. Within its regular outline, it comprises an area of , including adjacent islands.
Approval voting is a single-winner electoral system. Each voter may &quot;approve&quot; of (i.
==Events==
The Fort Astoria replica
Alarums and Excursions (A&amp;E) is an amateur press association started in June 1975 by Lee Gold (at the request of Bruce Pelz, who felt that discussion of Dungeons &amp; Dragons was taking up too much space in APA-L, the APA of Los Angeles's SF Fandom, usually collated at the Los Angeles Science Fantasy Society).Bretts RPG Magazine and Zine Index , entry on Alarums &amp; Excursions, retrieved September 2007 It was the first publication to focus solely on role-playing games.
Amalric or Amalaric (also Americ, Almerich, Emeric, Emerick and other variations) is a personal name derived from the tribal name Amal (referring to the Gothic Amali) and ric (Gothic reiks) meaning &quot;ruler, prince&quot;.
1153
Anthemius of Tralles (, Medieval Greek: , Anthémios o Trallianós;  – 533  558) was a Greek from Tralles who worked as a geometer and architect in Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire. With Isidore of Miletus, he designed the Hagia Sophia for Justinian I.
Absalon or Axel (21 March 1201) was a Danish archbishop and statesman, who was the Bishop of Roskilde from 1158 to 1192 and Archbishop of Lund from 1178 until his death. He was the foremost politician and churchfather of Denmark in the second half of the 12th century, and was the closest advisor of King Valdemar I of Denmark.
thumb|right|200px|19th-century painting on display at [[Versailles, Yvelines|Versailles depicting Adhemar of Le Puy (in red to left of Raymond IV, Count of Toulouse).]]
__NOTOC__
Alfonso Jordan (; ; ; ) (1103–1148) was the Count of Tripoli (1105–09), Count of Rouergue (1109–48) and Count of Toulouse, Margrave of Provence and Duke of Narbonne (1112–48, as Alfons I).
Ambroise, sometimes Ambroise of Normandy,This form appeared first in  (flourished ) was a Norman poet and chronicler of the Third Crusade, author of a work called L'Estoire de la guerre sainte, which describes in rhyming Old French verse the adventures of Richard Coeur de Lion as a crusader.  The poem is known to us only through one Vatican manuscript, and long escaped the notice of historians.
ASCII art is a graphic design technique that uses computers for presentation and consists of pictures pieced together from the 95 printable (from a total of 128) characters defined by the ASCII Standard from 1963 and ASCII compliant character sets with proprietary extended characters (beyond the 128 characters of standard 7-bit ASCII). The term is also loosely used to refer to text based visual art in general.
Alexius is the Latinized form of the given name Alexios (, polytonic , &quot;defender&quot;, cf. Alexander), especially common in the later Byzantine Empire.
San Diego, California
The Africa Alphabet (also International African Alphabet or IAI alphabet) was developed in 1928 under the lead of Diedrich Westermann. He developed it with a group of Africanists at the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures (later the IAI) in London.
Acquire is a multi-player mergers and acquisitions themed board game. It is played with tiles representing hotels that are arranged on the board, play money and stock certificates.
An ambush is a long-established military tactic in which combatants take advantage of concealment and the element of surprise to attack unsuspecting enemy combatants from concealed positions, such as among dense underbrush or behind hilltops. Ambushes have been used consistently throughout history, from ancient to modern warfare.
An abzyme (from antibody and enzyme), also called catmab (from catalytic monoclonal antibody), and most often called catalytic antibody, is a monoclonal antibody with catalytic activity.  Abzymes are usually raised in lab animals immunized against synthetic haptens, but some natural abzymes can be found in normal humans (anti-vasoactive intestinal peptide autoantibodies) and in patients with autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus, where they can bind to and hydrolyze DNA.
thumb|Four of the 14 finch species found on the [[Galápagos Islands|Galápagos Archipelago, are thought to have evolved by an adaptive radiation that diversified their beak shapes to adapt them to different food sources.]]
200px|thumb|right|Digital image of 3 plasmid restriction digests run on a 1% w/v agarose gel, 3 volt/cm, stained with ethidium bromide. The DNA size marker is a commercial 1 kbp ladder.
An allele (/əˈliːl/) https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.
Annealing may refer to:
Super Bug}}
In immunology, an antigen is a molecule capable of inducing an immune response (to produce an antibody) in the host organism. Sometimes antigens are part of the host itself in an autoimmune disease.
An autosome is a chromosome that is not an allosome (a sex chromosome).  The members of an autosome pair in a diploid cell have the same morphology unlike those in allosome pairs which may have different structure.
Antwerp is a city in Belgium and capital of the Antwerp province.
Aquila is the Latin and Romance languages word for eagle. Specifically, it may refer to:
QutbismWright, Looming Tower, 2006, p. 79Pan-IslamismAnti-CommunismAnti-ZionismOctober 6, 2002.
thumb|The constellation Argo Navis drawn by [[Johannes Hevelius]]
In Greek mythology, Andromeda is the daughter of the Aethiopian king Cepheus and his wife Cassiopeia. When Cassiopeia's hubris leads her to boast that Andromeda is more beautiful than the Nereids, Poseidon sends the sea monster Cetus to ravage Aethiopia as divine punishment.
, genitive
Auriga can refer to:
An atmosphere is a gas layer around a celestial body.
, genitive
Attorney may refer to:
Approximants are speech sounds that involve the articulators approaching each other but not narrowly enough nor with enough articulatory precision, citing  to create turbulent airflow. Therefore, approximants fall between fricatives, which do produce a turbulent airstream, and vowels, which produce no turbulence.
Astronomer Royal is a senior post in the Royal Households of the United Kingdom. There are two officers, the senior being the Astronomer Royal dating from 22 June 1675; the second is the Astronomer Royal for Scotland dating from 1834.
The word aeon , also spelled eon  (in American English) and æon, originally meant &quot;life&quot;, &quot;vital force&quot; or &quot;being&quot;, &quot;generation&quot; or &quot;a period of time&quot;, though it tended to be translated as &quot;age&quot; in the sense of  &quot;ages&quot;, &quot;forever&quot;, &quot;timeless&quot; or &quot;for eternity&quot;. It is a Latin transliteration from the koine Greek word   (aiwon).
An airline is a company that provides air transport services for traveling passengers and freight. Airlines utilize aircraft to supply these services and may form partnerships or alliances with other airlines for codeshare agreements.
Units of alcohol are used in the United Kingdom (UK) as a measure to quantify the actual alcoholic content within a given volume of an alcoholic beverage, in order to provide guidance on total alcohol consumption.
Aotus (the name is derived from the Ancient Greek words for &quot;earless&quot; in both cases: the monkey is missing external ears, and the pea is missing earlike bracteoles) may refer to:
Andreas Capellanus (Capellanus meaning &quot;chaplain&quot;), also known as Andrew the Chaplain, and occasionally by a French translation of his name, André le Chapelain, was the 12th-century author of a treatise commonly known as De amore (&quot;About Love&quot;), and often known in English, somewhat misleadingly, as The Art of Courtly Love, though its realistic, somewhat cynical tone suggests that it is in some measure an antidote to courtly love. Little is known of Andreas Capellanus's life, but he is presumed to have been a courtier of Marie de Champagne, and probably of French origin.
NASDAQ-100 ComponentS&amp;P 500 Component
The Alexander Technique (A.T.
right|thumb|Portrait of Andrea Alciato, reproduced from the 1584 edition of his emblem book
The apparent magnitude () of a celestial object is a number that is a measure of its brightness as seen by an observer on Earth. The brighter an object appears, the lower its magnitude value (i.
Absolute magnitude is a measure of the  luminosity of a celestial object, on a logarithmic astronomical magnitude scale. An object's absolute magnitude is defined to be equal to the apparent magnitude that the object would have if were viewed from a distance of exactly 10 parsecs (32.
The American Revolution was a colonial revolt that took place between 1765 and 1783. The American Patriots in the Thirteen Colonies won independence from Great Britain, becoming the United States of America.
==Events==
}}
(Amiga 1000)
Absorption may refer to:
The actinophryids are small, familiar group of heliozoans. They are the most common heliozoa in fresh water, and are especially frequent in lakes and rivers, but a few are found in marine and soil habitats as well.
==Events==
The word Angula may refer to one of the following:
ASP may refer to:
Algebraic geometry is a branch of mathematics, classically studying zeros of multivariate polynomials. Modern algebraic geometry is based on the use of abstract algebraic techniques, mainly from commutative algebra, for solving  geometrical problems about these sets of zeros.
The argument from morality is an argument for the existence of God. Arguments from morality tend to be based on moral normativity or moral order.
ASL is a common initialism for American Sign Language, the sign language of the United States and Canada, and may also refer to:
Archery  is the sport, practice or skill of using a bow to propel arrows. The word comes from the Latin arcus.
}}
Atomic semantics is a term which describes a type of guarantee provided by a data register shared by several processors in a parallel machine or in a network of computers working together.
The Antarctic Circumpolar Current (ACC) is an ocean current that flows clockwise from west to east around Antarctica. An alternative name for the ACC is the West Wind Drift.
Arbor Day (or Arbour; from the Latin arbor, meaning tree) is a holiday in which individuals and groups are encouraged to plant trees. Today, many countries observe such a holiday.
The Achaeans (;  Akhaioí, &quot;the Achaeans&quot; or &quot;of Achaea&quot;) constitute one of the collective names for the Greeks in Homer's Iliad (used 598 times) and Odyssey. The other common names are Danaans (;  Danaoi; used 138 times in the Iliad) and Argives (; ; used 182 times in the Iliad) while Panhellenes ( Panhellenes, &quot;All of the Greeks&quot;) and Hellenes (;&quot;Hellene&quot; entry in Collins English Dictionary, HarperCollins Publishers, 1998.
The Amber Road was an ancient trade route for the transfer of amber from coastal areas of the North Sea and the Baltic Sea to the Mediterranean Sea.  Graciela Gestoso Singer, &quot;Amber in the Ancient Near East&quot;, i-Medjat No.
Ambient or Ambiance may refer to:
Acting is an activity in which a story is told by means of its enactment by an actor or actress who adopts a character—in theatre, television, film, radio, or any other medium that makes use of the mimetic mode.
Delyan}}
Avionics are the electronic systems used on aircraft, artificial satellites, and spacecraft. Avionic systems include communications, navigation, the display and management of multiple systems, and the hundreds of systems that are fitted to aircraft to perform individual functions.
Ares (;  ) is the Greek god of war. He is one of the Twelve Olympians, and the son of Zeus and Hera.
thumb|250px|right|AA meeting sign (German)
thumb|This image's alpha channel falls off to zero at its base.
Array}}
&quot;Advance Australia Fair&quot; is the national anthem of Australia. Created by the Scottish-born composer Peter Dodds McCormick, the song was first performed in 1878 and sung in Australia as a patriotic song.
An automatic number announcement circuit (ANAC) is a component of a central office of a telephone company that provides a service to installation and service technicians to determine the telephone number of a line. The facility has a telephone number that may be called to listen to an automatic announcement that includes the caller's telephone number.
*  (1701–1707)
Aircraft hijacking (also  air piracy or aircraft piracy, especially within the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States, and informally as skyjacking) is the unlawful seizure of an aircraft by an individual or a group. In most cases, the pilot is forced to fly according to the orders of the hijackers.
The Acropolis of Athens (Ancient Greek: Ἀκρόπολις, tr. Akrópolis;Thucydides 2.
A Fire Upon the Deep is a science fiction novel by American writer Vernor Vinge, a space opera involving superhuman intelligences, aliens, physics, space battles, love, betrayal, genocide, and a conversation medium resembling Usenet. A Fire Upon the Deep won the Hugo Award in 1993 that tied with Doomsday Book by Connie Willis.
Aeronautics (from the ancient Greek words ὰήρ āēr, which means &quot;air&quot;, and ναυτική nautikē which means &quot;navigation&quot;, i.e.
Act}}
Abijah ( ’Ăḇîyāh; also Abiah, Abia; in modern Hebrew Aviya) is a Biblical HebrewPetrovsky, p. 35 unisex nameSuperanskaya, p.
Ark may refer to:
,  or
The aorta () is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation.
Abimelech (also spelled Abimelek or Avimelech; ) was the name of multiple Philistine kings mentioned in the Hebrew Bible.
*Albert Uderzo
Based in Arizona since 1988
thumb|200px|[[Mjölnir, the hammer of Thor, is one of the major symbols of Ásatrú.]]
An ansible is a category of fictional device or technology capable of instantaneous or faster-than-light communication. It can send and receive messages to and from a corresponding device over any distance or obstacle whatsoever with no delay.
956
In mathematics, an associative algebra is an algebraic structure with compatible operations of addition, multiplication (assumed to be associative), and a scalar multiplication by elements in some field. The addition and multiplication operations together give A the structure of a ring; the addition and scalar multiplication operations together give A the structure of a vector space over K.
In mathematics, the axiom of regularity (also known as the axiom of foundation) is an axiom of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory that states that every non-empty set A contains an element that is disjoint from A. In first-order logic, the axiom reads:
http://publib.boulder.
The Apple II series (trademarked with square brackets as &quot;Apple ][&quot; and rendered on later models as &quot;Apple //&quot;) is a family of home computers, one of the first highly successful mass-produced text command microcomputer products, designed primarily by Steve Wozniak, manufactured by Apple Computer (now Apple Inc.) and introduced in 1977 with the original Apple II.
In organic chemistry, hydrocarbons (compounds composed of carbon and hydrogen) are divided into two classes: aromatic compounds and aliphatic compounds (; G. aleiphar, fat, oil) also known as non-aromatic compounds.
Astrology is the study of the movements and relative positions of celestial objects as a means for divining information about human affairs and terrestrial events. Astrology has been dated to at least the 2nd millennium BCE, and has its roots in calendrical systems used to predict seasonal shifts and to interpret celestial cycles as signs of divine communications.
Abyssinia may refer to:
In abstract algebra, a field extension L/K is called algebraic if every element of L is algebraic over K, i.e.
An Aromatic hydrocarbon or Arene is a hydrocarbon with alternating double and single bonds between carbon atoms forming rings.
Aesthetics ( or ; also spelled æsthetics and esthetics) is a branch of philosophy that explores the nature of art, beauty, and taste, with the creation and appreciation of beauty.Definition 1 of aesthetics from the Merriam-Webster Dictionary Online.
The Ark of the Covenant (), also known as the Ark of the Testimony, is a gold-covered wooden chest described in the Book of Exodus as containing the two stone tablets of the Ten Commandments. According to various texts within the Hebrew Bible, it also contained Aaron's rod and a pot of manna.
thumb|right|320px|Map of the [[Roman Empire under Hadrian (ruled 117–138), showing the then homeland of the Angles (Anglii) on the Jutland peninsula in today's Germany and Denmark]]
thumb|right|300px|The very first &quot;kit&quot; version of the Aster CT-80 running Newdos/80. The 64x16 TRS-80 mode screen uses only a small part of the monitor screen, because the letters are the same size as the 80×25 CP/M screen.
Arthur Wellesley may refer to:
These are lists of animated television series. Animated television series are television programs produced by means of animation.
The following is a list of current and past, nonclassified notable artificial intelligence projects.
An armour (British English) or armor (American English; see spelling differences) is a protective covering that is used to prevent damage from being inflicted to an object, individual or vehicle by direct contact weapons or projectiles, usually during combat, or from damage caused by a potentially dangerous environment or action (e.g.
An armoured fighting vehicle (AFV) is a combat vehicle, protected by strong armour and generally armed with weapons, which combines operational mobility, tactical offensive, and defensive capabilities. AFVs can be wheeled or tracked.
All Quiet on the Western Front () is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I. The book describes the German soldiers' extreme physical and mental stress during the war, and the detachment from civilian life felt by many of these soldiers upon returning home from the front.
12.7% of the total U.
The DFSG and Software Licenses |work=Debian Wiki|accessdate=November 28, 2010}}
In Greek mythology, AeolusChaucer's Eolus (de Weever, Jacqueline (1996).  Chaucer Name Dictionary, s.
ABC are the first three letters of the Latin script known as the alphabet.
An Alford plea (also called a Kennedy plea in West Virginia, an
ABCD is a list of the first four letters in the English alphabet.  It may also refer to:
In analytic philosophy, anti-realism is an epistemological position first articulated by British philosopher Michael Dummett. The term was coined as an argument against a form of realism Dummett saw as 'colorless reductionism'.
as Dial Square
}}
Atlantis (, &quot;island of Atlas&quot;) is a fictional island mentioned within an allegory on the hubris of nations in Plato's works Timaeus and Critias, where it represents the antagonist naval power that besieges &quot;Ancient Athens&quot;, the pseudo-historic embodiment of Plato's ideal state (see The Republic). In the story, Athens repels the Atlantean attack unlike any other nation of the (western) known world,Plato's contemporaries pictured the world as consisting of only Europe, Northern Africa, and Western Asia (see the map of Hecataeus of Miletus).
An autobiography (from the Greek, αὐτός-autos self +  βίος-bios life + γράφειν-graphein to write) is a self-written account of the life of a person. The word &quot;autobiography&quot; was first used deprecatingly by William Taylor in 1797 in the English periodical The Monthly Review, when he suggested the word as a hybrid, but condemned it as &quot;pedantic&quot;.
Arcadius (; }}; 1 January 377 – 1 May 408) was Byzantine Emperor from 383 to 408. He was the eldest son of Theodosius I and his first wife Aelia Flaccilla, and brother of the Western Emperor Honorius.
)
Late Paleocene – Recent
Antisemitism in the Arab world has increased greatly in modern times, for many reasons: the breakdown of the Ottoman Empire and traditional Islamic society; European influence, brought about by Western imperialism and Arab Christians;Lewis (1986), p. 132 Nazi propaganda;Yadlin, Rifka.
==Events==
Arcology, a portmanteau of &quot;architecture&quot; and &quot;ecology&quot;,. is a field of creating architectural design principles for very densely populated, ecologically low-impact human habitats.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
In classical mathematics, analytic geometry, also known as coordinate geometry, or Cartesian geometry, is the study of geometry using a coordinate system. This contrasts with synthetic geometry.
Angels have appeared in works of art since early Christian art, and they have been a popular subject for Byzantine and European paintings and sculpture.
Anglo-Saxon may refer to:
Folklore consists of legends, music, oral history, proverbs, jokes, popular beliefs, fairy tales, stories, tall tales, and customs that are the traditions of a culture, subculture, or group. It is also the set of practices through which those expressive genres are shared.
Mac   Linux
–present
hayeren
Additive synthesis is a sound synthesis technique that creates timbre by adding sine waves together.
An aircraft carrier is a warship that serves as a seagoing airbase, equipped with a full-length flight deck and facilities for carrying, arming, deploying, and recovering aircraft. Typically, it is the capital ship of a fleet, as it allows a naval force to project air power worldwide without depending on local bases for staging aircraft operations.
Argentine cuisine is described as a cultural blending of  Mediterranean influences (such as those created by Italian and Spanish populations) with and very small inflows (mainly in border areas), Indigenous, within the wide scope of  agricultural products that are abundant in the country. Argentine annual consumption of beef has averaged 100 kg (220 lbs) per capita,National Geographic Magazine.
==Events==
Ad hominem (Latin for &quot;to the man&quot; or &quot;to the person&quot;), short for argumentum ad hominem, is in which an argument is rebutted by attacking the character, motive, or other attribute of the person making the argument, or persons associated with the argument, rather than attacking the substance of the argument itself.
In computer science, the analysis of algorithms is the determination of the amount of time, storage and/or other resources necessary to execute them. Usually, this involves determining a function that relates the length of an algorithm's input to the number of steps it takes (its time complexity) or the number of storage locations it uses (its space complexity).
Ælle (; also Aelle or Ella) is recorded in early sources as the first king of the South Saxons, reigning in what is now called Sussex, England, from 477 to perhaps as late as 514.
Atari is a corporate and brand name owned by several entities since its inception in 1972, currently by Atari Interactive, a subsidiary of the French publisher Atari, SA (ASA). &quot;Atari word mark and logo are trademarks owned by Atari Interactive, Inc.
Afghan (Pashto/; see etymology) refers to someone or something from Afghanistan, in particular a citizen of that country. Prior to the rise of the nation as Afghanistan, it was used by Persian speakers and those influenced by the Persian language to denote the Pashtun people.
The steel-string acoustic guitar is a modern form of guitar that descends from the classical guitar, but is strung with steel strings for a brighter, louder sound. It is often referred to simply as an acoustic guitar, though the nylon-strung classical guitar is sometimes also called an acoustic guitar.
Antonio Salieri (; 18 August 17507 May 1825) was an Italian classical composer, conductor, and teacher. He was born in Legnago, south of Verona, in the Republic of Venice, and spent his adult life and career as a subject of the Habsburg Monarchy.
An analgesic or painkiller is any member of the group of drugs used to achieve analgesia, relief from pain.
Abiotic stress is defined as the negative impact of non-living factors on the living organisms in a specific environment.  The non-living variable must influence the environment beyond its normal range of variation to adversely affect the population performance or individual physiology of the organism in a significant way.
The accusative case (abbreviated ) of a noun is the grammatical case used to mark the direct object of a transitive verb. The same case is used in many languages for the objects of (some or all) prepositions.
thumb|[[Episcopal consecration of Deodatus; Claude Bassot (1580-1630).]]
de Joden (the Jews), I Lancieri (The Lancers), Lucky Ajax
from the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne in Lausanne
==Events==
An assault gun is a form of self-propelled artillery which utilizes an infantry support gun mounted on a motorized chassis, normally an armored fighting vehicle. Assault guns are designed to provide direct fire support for infantry attacks, especially against other infantry or fortified positions.
A tank destroyer or tank hunter is a type of armoured fighting vehicle, armed with a direct-fire artillery gun or missile launcher, with limited operational capacities and designed specifically to engage enemy tanks.
A military armored (or armoured) car is a lightweight wheeled armored fighting vehicle, historically employed for reconnaissance, internal security, armed escort, and other subordinate battlefield tasks. With the gradual decline of mounted cavalry, armored cars were developed for carrying out duties formerly assigned to horsemen.
An anti-aircraft vehicle, also known as a self-propelled anti-aircraft gun (SPAAG) or self-propelled air defense system (SPAD), is a mobile vehicle with a dedicated anti-aircraft capability. The Russian equivalent of SPAAG is ZSU, for zenitnaya samokhodnaya ustanovka, (&quot;anti-aircraft self-propelled mount&quot;).
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys.
}}
‎, Arāmāyā
Titus (; ) was an early Christian missionary and church leader, a companion and disciple of Paul the Apostle, mentioned in several of the Pauline epistles including the Epistle to Titus. He is believed to be a Gentile converted to Christianity by Paul and, according to tradition, he was consecrated as Bishop of the Island of Crete.
The actinide  or actinoid  (IUPAC nomenclature) series encompasses the 15 metallic chemical elements with atomic numbers from 89 to 103, actinium through lawrencium.Actinide element, Encyclopædia Britannica on-lineAlthough &quot;actinoid&quot; (rather than &quot;actinide&quot;) means &quot;actinium-like&quot; and therefore should exclude actinium, that element is usually included in the series.
210px|thumb|Anton Diabelli, lithograph by [[Josef Kriehuber]]
The term 'the 10th of August' is widely used by historians as a shorthand for the Storming of the Tuileries Palace on the 10th of August, 1792, the effective end of the French monarchy until it was restored in 1814.
An audio file format is a file format for storing digital audio data on a computer system. The bit layout of the audio data (excluding metadata) is called the audio coding format and can be uncompressed, or compressed to reduce the file size, often using lossy compression.
Two antipopes used the regnal name Victor IV:
Audio signal processing or audio processing is the intentional alteration of audio signals often through an audio effect or effects unit. As audio signals may be electronically represented in either digital or analog format, signal processing may occur in either domain.
In computer architecture, Amdahl's law (or Amdahl's argument) is a formula which gives the theoretical speedup in latency of the execution of a task at fixed workload that can be expected of a system whose resources are improved. It is named after computer scientist Gene Amdahl, and was presented at the AFIPS Spring Joint Computer Conference in 1967.
==Events==
}}
Alfonso Leng Haygus (11 February 1884 – 11 November 1974)Alfonso Leng, Sinfónica de Colombia (accessed 2014-04-22) (in Spanish) was a post-romantic composer of classical music.John Beckwith, In Search of Alberto Guerrero (Wilfrid Laurier University Press, 2006), , pp.
In optics and lens design, the Abbe number, also known as the V-number or constringence of a transparent material, is a measure of the material's dispersion (variation of refractive index versus wavelength), with high values of V indicating low dispersion. It is named after Ernst Abbe (1840–1905), the German physicist who defined it.
ACN may refer to:
An ad (advertisement) is a form of marketing communication.
The ablative case (sometimes abbreviated ) is a grammatical case for nouns, pronouns and adjectives in the grammar of various languages; it is sometimes used to express motion away from something, among other uses. The word &quot;ablative&quot; derives from the Latin ablatus, the (irregular) perfect passive participle of auferre &quot;to carry away&quot;.
The Adamic language is, according to Jewish tradition (as recorded in the midrashim) and some Christians, the language spoken by Adam (and possibly Eve) in the Garden of Eden. It is variously interpreted as either the language used by God to address Adam (the divine language), or the language invented by Adam with which he named all things (including Eve), as in .
Antipope Felix II, an archdeacon of Rome, was installed as Pope in 355 AD after the Emperor Constantius II banished the reigning Pope, Liberius, for refusing to subscribe to a sentence of condemnation against Saint Athanasius.Charles A.
Alkaloids are a group of naturally occurring chemical compounds  that mostly contain basic nitrogen atoms. This group also includes some related compounds with neutralIUPAC.
Adventism is a minor branch of Protestant Christianity which was started by William Miller during the Second Great Awakening in the United States.
Anointing of the sick, known also by other names, is a form of religious anointing or &quot;unction&quot; (an older term with the same meaning) for the benefit of a sick person. It is practiced by many Christian churches and denominations.
}}
The American Football League (AFL) was a major professional American football league that operated from 1960 until 1969, when it merged with the National Football League (NFL). The upstart AFL operated in direct competition with the more established NFL throughout its existence.
The Abu Nidal Organization (ANO) is the most common name for the Palestinian group Fatah–The Revolutionary Council (Fatah al-Majles al-Thawry).
An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shaped protein produced mainly by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the Fab's variable region.
ALF Tales is a 30-minute Saturday morning animated series that aired on NBC from September 10, 1988 to December 9, 1989. The show is a spin-off of ALF: The Animated Series which featured characters from that series play various characters from fairy tales.
thumb|Andreas Aagesen
Aedile ( , from aedes, &quot;temple edifice&quot;) was an office of the Roman Republic. Based in Rome, the aediles were responsible for maintenance of public buildings (aedēs) and regulation of public festivals.
thumb|340px| Two views of the Auger process. (a) illustrates sequentially the steps involved in Auger deexcitation.
An anode is an electrode through which conventional current flows into a polarized electrical device. A common mnemonic is ACID for &quot;anode current into device&quot;.
}}
==Events==
thumb|right|[[Nitrocellulose adhesive dispensed from a tube]]
Australian rules football, officially known as Australian football, or simply known as football or footy, is a contact sport played between two teams of eighteen players on an oval-shaped field, often a modified cricket ground.
Alban Maria Johannes Berg (;&quot;Berg, Alban&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
Analytical chemistry studies and uses instruments and methods used to separate, identify, and quantify matter. In practice separation, identification or quantification may constitute the entire analysis or be combined with another method.
In music, an arrangement is a musical reconceptualization of a previously composed work. It may differ from the original work by means of reharmonization, melodic paraphrasing, orchestration, or development of the formal structure.
thumb|right|[[Athanasius of Alexandria was traditionally thought to be the author of the Athanasian Creed, and gives his name to its common title.]]
Castillo de Santa Bárbara
==Events==
Albrecht Achilles may refer to:
painting of Aurangzeb on horseback
Alexandrine is a name used for several distinct types of verse line with related metrical structures, most of which are ultimately derived from the classical French alexandrine. The line's name derives from its use in the Medieval French Roman d'Alexandre of 1170, although it had already been used several decades earlier in Le Pèlerinage de Charlemagne.
thumb|200px|A page from the Bombardier's Information File (BIF) that describes the components and controls of the [[Norden bombsight. The Norden bombsight was a highly sophisticated optical/mechanical analog computer used by the United States Army Air Force during World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War to aid the pilot of a bomber aircraft in dropping bombs accurately.
Audio most commonly refers to sound. It may also refer to:
of the radius, i.e.
An anthem is a musical composition of [usually used as a symbol for a distinct group, particularly the national anthem]s of [[country|countries. Originally, and in music theory and religious contexts, it also refers more particularly to short sacred choral work and still more particularly to a specific form of Anglican church music.
thumb|Resurrection by Altdorfer, 1518
The House of Ascania () is a dynasty of German rulers. It is also known as the House of Anhalt, which refers to its longest-held possession, Anhalt.
right|thumb|Removal of adherent surface deposits by physical chemical means (by cotton swab) at Church of [[Sucevița Monastery, burial chamber, in Suceava, Romania]]
A&amp;W, AW, Aw, aW or aw may refer to:
the video at The Cell: An Image Library
Appomattox, shorthand for the surrender of Robert E. Lee to Ulysses S.
Anal sex or anal intercourse is generally the insertion and thrusting of the erect penis into a person's anus, or anus and rectum, for sexual pleasure.See pages 270–271 for anal sex information, and page 118 for information about the clitoris.
Aba may refer to:
The American Quarter Horse, commonly called the Quarter Horse, is an American breed of horse that excels at sprinting short distances. Its name came from its ability to outdistance other horse breeds in races of a quarter mile or less; some have been clocked at speeds up to 55 mph (88.
*Musa silvéstris Colla
right|Apollyon (top) battling Christian in [[John Bunyan's The Pilgrim's Progress.|240px|thumb]]
Abae (, Abai) is an ancient town in the northeastern corner of Phocis, in Greece. It was famous in antiquity for its oracle of Apollo Abaeus, one of those consulted by Croesus, king of Lydia, and Mardonius, among others.
==Events==
ATM or atm may refer to:
Amazonite (sometimes called &quot;Amazon stone&quot;) is a green variety of microcline  feldspar.
Anthroposophy is a philosophy founded by Rudolf Steiner that postulates the existence of an objective, intellectually comprehensible spiritual world that is accessible by direct experience through inner development. More specifically, it aims to develop faculties of perceptive imagination, inspiration and intuition through the cultivation of a form of thinking independent of sensory experience,Robert McDermott, The Essential Steiner, , pp.
}}
}}
The anus (from Latin [meaning &quot;ring&quot;, &quot;circle&quot;) is an opening at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract] from the mouth. Its function is to control the expulsion of [[feces, unwanted semi-solid matter produced during digestion, which, depending on the type of animal, may include: matter which the animal cannot digest, such as bones; Summary at  food material after all the nutrients have been extracted, for example cellulose or lignin; ingested matter which would be toxic if it remained in the digestive tract; and dead or excess gut bacteria and other endosymbionts.
Appendix may refer to:
The Acantharea (Acantharia) are a group of radiolarian protozoa, distinguished mainly by their skeletons.
Asynchrony}}
Artillery is a class of large military weapons built to fire munitions far beyond the range and power of infantry's small arms. Early artillery development focused on the ability to breach fortifications, and led to heavy, fairly immobile siege engines.
Arnulf of Carinthia ( 850 – December 8, 899) was the duke of Carinthia who overthrew his uncle, Emperor Charles the Fat, became the Carolingian king of East FranciaEast Francia had been split from the rest of Frankish Realm by the Treaty of Verdun in 843. It evolved into Holy Roman Empire after end of Carolingian rule.
thumb|250px|Neighborhoods in [[Berlin-Mitte: Old Cölln [1] (with Museum Island [1a], Fisher Island [1b]), Altberlin [2] (with Nikolaiviertel [2a]), Friedrichswerder [3], Neukölln am Wasser [4], Dorotheenstadt [5], Friedrichstadt [6], Luisenstadt [7], Stralauer Vorstadt (with Königsstadt) [8], Alexanderplatz Area (Königsstadt and Altberlin) [9], Spandauer Vorstadt [10] (with Scheunenviertel [10a]), Friedrich-Wilhelm-Stadt [11], Oranienburger Vorstadt [12], Rosenthaler Vorstadt [13] ]]
Adelaide of Italy (93116 December 999), also called Adelaide of Burgundy, was the second wife of Holy Roman Emperor Otto the GreatCampbell, Thomas. &quot;St.
The Airbus A300 is a wide-body twin-engine jet airliner that was developed and manufactured by Airbus. Formally announced in 1969 and first flying in October 1972, it holds the distinction of being the world's first twin-engined widebody airliner; it was also the first product of Airbus Industrie, a consortium of European aerospace manufacturers, now a subsidiary of Airbus.
Agostino Carracci (or Caracci) (16 August 1557 – 22 March 1602) was an Italian painter and printmaker. He was the brother of the more famous Annibale and cousin of Lodovico Carracci.
Adenylyl cyclase (, also commonly known as adenyl cyclase and adenylate cyclase, abbreviated AC) is an enzyme with key regulatory roles in essentially all cells. It is the most polyphyletic known enzyme: six distinct classes have been described, all catalyzing the same reaction but representing unrelated gene families with no known sequence or structural homology.
Phonetic:   or
Articolo 31 was a band from Milan, Italy, formed in 1990 by J-Ax and DJ Jad, combining hip hop, funk, pop and traditional Italian musical forms. They are one of the most popular Italian hip hop groups.
Alexander Fyodorovich Kerensky (, ; 4 May 1881 – 11 June 1970) was a Russian lawyer and key political figure in the Russian Revolution of 1917. After the February Revolution of 1917 he joined the newly formed Russian Provisional Government, first as Minister of Justice, then as Minister of War, and after July 1917 as the government's second Minister-Chairman.
Automated theorem proving (also known as ATP or automated deduction) is a subfield of automated reasoning and mathematical logic dealing with proving mathematical theorems by computer programs.  Automated reasoning over mathematical proof was a major impetus for the development of computer science.
Agent Orange is an herbicide and defoliant chemical. It is widely known for its use by the U.
Astronomical year numbering is based on AD/CE year numbering, but follows normal decimal integer numbering more strictly. Thus, it has a year 0; the years before that are designated with negative numbers and the years after that are designated with positive numbers.
Adam of Bremen (; ) was a German medieval chronicler. He lived and worked in the second half of the eleventh century.
thumb|300px|[[Antoninianus of Pacatianus, usurper of Roman emperor Philip in 248. It bears the legend ROMAE AETER[NAE] AN[NO] MIL[LESIMO] ET PRIMO, &quot;To eternal Rome, in its one thousand and first year&quot;.
The ARY Group is a Dubai-based holding company founded by a Pakistani businessman, the late Haji Abdul Razzak Yaqoob, who died in 2014. This group was founded in 1972 in Dubai.
Administrative law is the body of law that governs the activities of administrative agencies of government. Government agency action can include rulemaking, adjudication, or the enforcement of a specific regulatory agenda.
==Events==
Géant FerréGiant MachineJean FerréMonster Eiffel TowerMonster Roussimoff
Amalthea can refer to:
Ananke () has several meanings:
Alph may refer to:
Arbroath Abbey, in the Scottish town of Arbroath, was founded in 1178 by King William the Lion for a group of Tironensian Benedictine monks from Kelso Abbey.
Accounting or accountancy is the measurement, processing, and communication of financial information about economic entities such as businesses and corporations. The modern field was established by the Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli in 1494.
Cenomanian – Present
Arbitration, in the context of United States law, is a form of alternative dispute resolution—specifically, a legal alternative to litigation whereby the parties to a dispute agree to submit their respective positions (through agreement or hearing) to a neutral third party (the arbitrator(s) or arbiter(s)) for resolution. In practice arbitration is generally used as a substitute for judicial systems, particularly when the judicial processes are viewed as too slow, expensive or biased.
The adversarial system or adversary system is a legal system used in the common law countries where two advocates represent their parties' case or position before an impartial person or group of people, usually a jury or judge, who attempt to determine the truth and pass judgment accordingly. It is in contrast to the inquisitorial system used in some civil law systems (i.
Abated, an ancient technical term applied in masonry and metal work to those portions which are sunk beneath the surface, as in inscriptions where the ground is sunk round the letters so as to leave the letters or ornament in relief.
Abati is a surname. It was used by an ancient noble family of Florence.
An abatis, abattis, or abbattis is a field fortification consisting of an obstacle formed (in the modern era) of the branches of trees laid in a row, with the sharpened tops directed outwards, towards the enemy. The trees are usually interlaced or tied with wire.
Abba Mari ben Moses ben Joseph, was a Provençal rabbi, born at Lunel, near Montpellier, towards the end of the 13th century. He is also known as Yarhi from his birthplace (Hebrew Yerah, i.
thumb|right|350px|Reviewing in battle
Adware, or advertising-supported software, is any software package that automatically renders advertisements in order to generate revenue for its author. The advertisements may be in the user interface of the software or on a screen presented to the user during the installation process.
thumb|339x339px|Aeacus and [[Telamon by Jean-Michel Moreau le Jeune.]]Aeacus (; also spelled Eacus; Ancient Greek: Αἰακός) was a mythological king of the island of Aegina in the Saronic Gulf.
Aedesius (, died 355 AD) was a Neoplatonist philosopher and mystic born of a noble Cappadocian family.
thumb|275px|Front of [[Celsus Library with aediculae in Ephesus.]]
thumb|300px|A map of [[Gaul in the 1st century BC, showing the location of the Aedui tribe.]]
The Aegadian Islands  (; Sicilian: Ìsuli Ègadi, , , meaning &quot;the islands of goats&quot;) are a group of five small mountainous islands in the Mediterranean Sea off the northwest coast of Sicily, Italy, near the cities of Trapani and Marsala, with a total area of .
Aegean civilization is a general term for the European Bronze Age civilizations of Greece around the Aegean Sea. There are three distinct but communicating and interacting geographic regions covered by this term: Crete, the Cyclades and the Greek mainland.
In Greek mythology, Aegeus () or Aegeas (), was an archaic figure in the founding myth of Athens. The &quot;goat-man&quot; who gave his name to the Aegean Sea was, next to Poseidon, the father of Theseus, the founder of Athenian institutions and one of the kings of Athens.
The aegis (;  aigis), as stated in the Iliad, is carried by Athena and Zeus, but its nature is uncertain. It had been interpreted as an animal skin or a shield, sometimes bearing the head of a Gorgon.
Aegisthus (; ; also transliterated as Aigisthos) is a figure in Greek mythology. He was the son of Thyestes and his daughter, Pelopia.
Aegospotami () or AegospotamosMish, Frederick C., Editor in Chief.
Aelian or Aelianus may refer to:
Aelianus Tacticus (; fl. 2nd century AD), also known as Aelian (), was a Greek military writer who lived in Rome.
An agarose is a polysaccharide polymer material, generally extracted from seaweed.  Agarose is a linear polymer made up of the repeating unit of agarobiose, which is a disaccharide made up of D-galactose and 3,6-anhydro-L-galactopyranose.
Atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) is a spectroanalytical procedure for the quantitative determination of chemical elements using the absorption of optical radiation (light) by free atoms in the gaseous state.
}}
Ajaigarh or Adjygurh () is a town and a nagar panchayat in the Panna District of Madhya Pradesh state in central India.
The Ajanta Caves in Aurangabad district of Maharashtra state of India are about 29 rock-cut Buddhist cave monuments which date from the 2nd century BCE to about 480 or 650 CE.The largest buddha statue in Ajanta is found in cave 19 of size 5m.
Ajmer-Merwara, also known as Ajmir ProvinceGeography of India and as Ajmer-Merwara-Kekri, is a former province of British India in the historical Ajmer region. The territory was ceded to the British by Daulat Rao Sindhia by a treaty on 25 June 1818.
Abatement of debts and legacies is a common law doctrine of wills that holds that when the equitable assets of a deceased person are not sufficient to satisfy fully all the creditors, their debts must abate proportionately, and they must accept a dividend.
Affection, attraction, infatuation, or fondness is a &quot;disposition or state of mind or body&quot;affection - Definitions from Dictionary.com that is often associated with a feeling or type of love.
}}
Affinity may refer to:
In many legal jurisdictions related to English common law, affray is a public order offence consisting of the fighting of one or more persons in a public place to the terror (in ) of ordinary people.  Depending on their actions, and the laws of the prevailing jurisdiction, those engaged in an affray may also render themselves liable to prosecution for assault, unlawful assembly, or riot; if so, it is for one of these offences that they are usually charged.
thumb|right|250px|Approximate boundaries of Afghan Turkestan (in orange), with respect to modern-day provinces of [[Afghanistan.]]
Kara Hisar}}
Abba Arikha (175–247) (Talmudic Aramaic: ; born: Abba bar Aybo, Hebrew: רב אבא בר איבו) was a Jewish Talmudist who was born and lived in Kafri, Sassanid Babylonia, known as an amora (commentator on the Oral Law) of the 3rd century who established at Sura the systematic study of the rabbinic traditions, which, using the Mishnah as text, led to the compilation of the Talmud. With him began the long period of ascendancy of the great academies of Babylonia , around the year 220.
Abbahu () was a Jewish Talmudist, known as an amora, who lived in the Land of Israel, of the 3rd amoraic generation (about 279-320), sometimes cited as R. Abbahu of Caesarea (Ḳisrin).
An Abbreviator (plural &quot;Abbreviators&quot; in English and &quot;Abbreviatores&quot; in Latin) or Breviator was a writer of the Papal Chancery who adumbrated and prepared in correct form Papal bulls, briefs, and consistorial decrees before these were written out in extenso by the scriptores.
Abd al-Latif al-Baghdadi, short for Muwaffaq al-Din Muhammad Abd al-Latif ibn Yusuf al-Baghdadi (; 1162–1231), or Abdallatif al-Baghdadi (), born in Baghdad, Abbasid Caliphate (modern Iraq), was a physician, historian, Egyptologist and traveler, and one of the most voluminous writers of the Near East in his time.Chambers Biographical Dictionary, , page 3
Abd al-Rahman I, more fully Abd al-Rahman ibn Mu'awiya ibn Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik ibn Marwan (731–788), was the founder of a Muslim dynasty that ruled the greater part of Iberia for nearly three centuries (including the succeeding Caliphate of Córdoba). At the time it was an establishment of a government in al-Andalus represented a branching from the rest of the Caliphate of Damascus, which had been brought under the Abbasid following the overthrow of the Umayyad dynasty from Damascus in 750.
Abd ar-Rahman II () (792–852) was the fourth Umayyad Emir of Córdoba in the Al-Andalus (Moorish Iberia) from 822 until his death.
Abd ar-Rahman IV Mortada (عبدالرحمن) was the Caliph of Córdoba in the Umayyad dynasty of the Al-Andalus, succeeding Suleiman II, in 1018. That same year, he was murdered at Cadiz while fleeing from a battle in which he had been deserted by the very supporters which had brought him into power.
Abd ar-Rahman V () was an Umayyad Caliph of Córdoba.
30 May 1876
Apollos () was a 1st century Alexandrian Jewish Christian mentioned several times in the New Testament. A contemporary and co-worker of Paul the Apostle, he played an important role in the early development of the churches of Ephesus and Corinth.
The Community acquisEuroVoc: Community acquis or acquis communautaire (; ), sometimes called the EU acquis and often shortened to acquis, is the accumulated legislation, legal acts, and court decisions which constitute the body of European Union law. The term is French: acquis meaning &quot;that which has been acquired or obtained&quot;, and communautaire meaning &quot;of the community&quot;.
thumb|Antacid tablets
An anti-diarrhoeal drug (or anti-diarrheal drug in American English) is any medication which provides symptomatic relief for diarrhoea.
Áed mac Cináeda (died 878) was a son of Cináed mac Ailpín. He became king of the Picts in 877, when he succeeded his brother Constantín mac Cináeda.
Abdur Rahman Khan () (between 1840 and 1844October 1, 1901) was Emir of Afghanistan from 1880 to 1901.However, his year of birth is given as 1830 in Chambers Biographical Dictionary, , page 2
Zegris (genus)}}
An aberration is something that deviates from the normal way.
The aberration of light (also referred to as astronomical aberration, stellar aberration, or velocity aberration) is an astronomical phenomenon which produces an apparent motion of celestial objects about their true positions, dependent on the velocity of the observer. Aberration causes objects to appear to be displaced towards the direction of motion of the observer compared to when the observer is stationary.
}}
Arthur William à Beckett (25 October 1844 – 14 January 1909) was an English journalist and intellectual.
Au, AU or au may refer to:
Abettor (from to abet, Old French abeter, à and beter, to bait, urge dogs upon any one; this word is probably of Scandinavian origin, meaning to cause to bite), is a legal term implying one who instigates, encourages or assists another to commit an offence.
Abeyance (from the Old French abeance meaning &quot;gaping&quot;) is a state of expectancy in respect of property, titles or office, when the right to them is not vested in any one person, but awaits the appearance or determination of the true owner.  In law, the term abeyance can only be applied to such future estates as have not yet vested or possibly may not vest.
Autocorrelation, also known as serial correlation, is the correlation of a signal with a delayed copy of itself as a function of delay. Informally, it is the similarity between observations as a function of the time lag between them.
Atlas Autocode (AA)R.A.
Arthur J. Stone (1847–1938), a leading American silversmith, was born, trained and worked in Sheffield, England, and Edinburgh, Scotland, before travelling to the United States in 1884.
The Au file format is a simple audio file format introduced by Sun Microsystems. The format was common on NeXT systems and on early Web pages.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Abhorrers, the name given in 1679 to the persons who expressed their abhorrence at the action of those who had signed petitions urging King Charles II of England to assemble Parliament.
Abiathar  (אֶבְיָתָר, Ebyathar, Evyatar, &quot;the [divine] father is pre-eminent&quot; or &quot;father of plenty&quot;), in the Hebrew Bible, son of Ahimelech or Ahijah, High Priest at Nob, the fourth in descent from Eli (1 Sam. 23:6) and the last of Eli's House.
Abigail ( spelled Abigal in  in the American Standard Version and Ab'igal in the Revised Standard Version, but Abigail in the King James Version) was the wife of Nabal; she became a wife of the future King David after Nabal's death (1 Samuel ). Abigail was David's third wife, after Saul's daughter, Michal, whom Saul later married to Palti, son of Laish when David went into hiding, and Ahinoam.
Abila is the name of several places:
}}
or
thumb|Asexual reproduction in [[Marchantiophyta|liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating]]
Aelbert Jacobsz Cuyp (October 20, 1620 – November 15, 1691) was one of the leading Dutch landscape painters of the Dutch Golden Age in the 17th century. The most famous of a family of painters, the pupil of his father Jacob Gerritsz Cuyp (1594–1651/52),
thumb|right|120px|A 3D model of [[ethylene, the simplest alkene.]]
right|thumb|[[Propadiene, the simplest allene, is also known as allene.]]
In organic chemistry, an alkyne is an unsaturated hydrocarbon containing at least one carbon—carbon triple bond.Alkyne.
500px|right|thumb|Ames test procedure
An antianginal is any drug used in the treatment of angina pectoris, a symptom of ischaemic heart disease.
The Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System is used for the classification of active ingredients of drugs according to the organ or system on which they act and their therapeutic, pharmacological and chemical properties. It is controlled by the World Health Organization Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistics Methodology (WHOCC), and was first published in 1976.
Parallel ATA (PATA), originally , is an interface standard for the connection of storage devices such as hard disk drives, floppy disk drives, and optical disc drives in computers. The standard is maintained by the X3/INCITS com
}}}}
Ahimsa IAST: , Pāli: ) means 'not to injure' and 'compassion' and refers to a key virtue in Indian religions. The word is derived from the Sanskrit root hiṃs – to strike; hiṃsā is injury or harm, a-hiṃsā is the opposite of this, i.
The Annals of Mathematics is a bimonthly mathematical journal published by Princeton University and the Institute for Advanced Study.
Astrobiology is the study of the origin, evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe: extraterrestrial life and life on Earth. Astrobiology addresses the question of whether life exists beyond Earth, and how humans can detect it if it does.
An air show, (also airshow, air fair, or air tattoo) is a public event at which aviators display their flying skills and the capabilities of their aircraft to spectators, usually by means of aerobatics. Air shows without aerobatic displays, having only aircraft displayed parked on the ground, are called &quot;static air shows&quot;.
The anthropic principle is a philosophical consideration that observations of the Universe must be compatible with the conscious and sapient life that observes it. Some proponents of the anthropic principle reason that it explains why this universe has the age and the fundamental physical constants necessary to accommodate conscious life.
The American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) is the Regional Internet Registry (RIR) for Canada, the United States, and many Caribbean and North Atlantic islands. ARIN manages the distribution of Internet number resources, including IPv4 and IPv6 address space and AS numbers.
Isaac Asimov (1920–1992) was a science fiction writer.
is a common name for the area around Akihabara Station in the Chiyoda ward of Tokyo, Japan. Administratively, the area called Akihabara mainly belongs to the , and the far-western part of Kanda-Sakumachō.
}}
Arian may refer to:
Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS) is an analog mobile phone system standard developed by Bell Labs, and officially introduced in the Americas on October 13, 1983,Private Line .MilestonesPast.
300px|thumb|upright=1.6|A [[vortex is created by the passage of an aircraft wing, revealed by smoke.
Andreas Schlüter (1659 or 1660; May 1714) was a German baroque sculptor and architect, active in Poland, Berlin and Saint Petersburg.
Ash or ashes are the solid remains of fires. Specifically, it refers to all non-aqueous, non-gaseous residues that remain after something is burned.
In calculus, an antiderivative, primitive function, primitive integral or indefinite integral|group=Note}} of a function  is a differentiable function  whose derivative is equal to the original function . This can be stated symbolically as ′ }} .
An alphabet song is any of various songs used to teach children the alphabet. Alphabet songs typically follow the alphabetic principle (though the phonics method offers variants).
Abingdon may refer to:
Abjuration is the solemn repudiation, abandonment, or renunciation by or upon oath, often the renunciation of citizenship or some other right or privilege.  The term comes from the Latin abjurare, &quot;to forswear&quot;.
Abitibi may refer to:
A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects (1792), written by the 18th-century British proto-feminist Mary Wollstonecraft, is one of the earliest works of feminist philosophy. In it, Wollstonecraft responds to those educational and political theorists of the 18th century who did not believe women should have an education.
}}
In physics, angular momentum (rarely, moment of momentum or rotational momentum) is the rotational analog of linear momentum. It is an important quantity in physics because it is a conserved quantity – the angular momentum of a system remains constant unless acted on by an external torque.
The plum pudding model is one of several scientific models of the atom. First proposed by J.
In chemistry and physics, atomic theory is a scientific theory of the nature of matter, which states that matter is composed of discrete units called atoms. It began as a philosophical concept in ancient Greece and entered the scientific mainstream in the early 19th century when discoveries in the field of chemistry showed that matter did indeed behave as if it were made up of atoms.
AI, A.I.
The Aberdeen Bestiary (Aberdeen University Library, Univ Lib. MS 24) is a 12th-century English illuminated manuscript bestiary that was first listed in 1542 in the inventory of the Old Royal Library at the Palace of Westminster.
}}
Aircraft spotting or plane spotting is a hobby of tracking the movement of aircraft, which is often accomplished by photography. Besides monitoring aircraft, aircraft spotting enthusiasts (whom are usually called plane spotters) also record information regarding airports, air traffic control communications and airline routes.
Advertising is an audio or visual form of marketing communication that employs an openly sponsored, nonpersonal message to promote or sell a product, service or idea.William J.
In the field of artificial intelligence, the most difficult problems are informally known as AI-complete or AI-hard, implying that the difficulty of these computational problems is equivalent to that of solving the central artificial intelligence problem—making computers as intelligent as people, or strong AI.Shapiro, Stuart C.
right|thumb|300px|The rising [[Sun illuminates the inner chamber of Newgrange, Ireland, only at the winter solstice.]]
An ammeter (from Ampere Meter) is a measuring instrument used to measure the current in a circuit. Electric currents are measured in amperes (A), hence the name.
}}
is a Japanese name and may refer to:
Archduke Charles of Austria, Duke of Teschen (German: Erzherzog Carl Ludwig Johann Joseph Laurentius von Österreich, Herzog von Teschen; 5 September 1771 – 30 April 1847) was an Austrian field-marshal, the third son of Emperor Leopold II and his wife, Maria Luisa of Spain. He was also the younger brother of Francis II, Holy Roman Emperor.
Alexander of Hales, O.F.
}}
In condensed matter physics and materials science, an amorphous (from the Greek a, without, morphé, shape, form) or non-crystalline solid is a solid that lacks the long-range order that is characteristic of a crystal. In some older books, the term has been used synonymously with glass.
AZ (or similar) may refer to:
A file archiver is a computer program that combines a number of files together into one archive file, or a series of archive files, for easier transportation or storage. File archivers may employ lossless data compression in their archive formats to reduce the size of the archive.
thumb|At [[Auschwitz I]]
Ahuitzotl (, ) was the eighth  Aztec ruler, the Hueyi Tlatoani of the city of Tenochtitlan, son of princess Atotoztli II. He was responsible for much of the expansion of the Mexica domain, and consolidated the empire's power after emulating his predecessor.
,&quot;Albino&quot; Dictionary.com.
}}
Belgian hip hop music has a few rappers stemming from Africa and Italy. Belgium, like France, controlled African countries like the Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire), Rwanda, and Burundi until the early 1960s.
Dutch hip hop or Nederhop is hip hop music created by musicians in the Netherlands and Flanders.
}}
In computability theory, the Ackermann function, named after Wilhelm Ackermann, is one of the simplest and earliest-discovered examples of a total computable function that is not primitive recursive. All primitive recursive functions are total and computable, but the Ackermann function illustrates that not all total computable functions are primitive recursive.
thumb|right|The [[Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station, the geographic South Pole is signposted in the background]]
Anabaptism (from Neo-Latin anabaptista, from the Greek :  &quot;re-&quot; and  &quot;baptism&quot;) is a Christian movement which traces its origins to the Radical Reformation in Europe. The movement is generally seen as an offshoot of Protestantism, although this view has been challenged by some Anabaptists.
Ans may refer to:
thumb|250px|Southeast Alaska and [[Alaska Marine Highway ferry routes]]
The Algemeen Nijmeegs Studentenblad is an independent student magazine for the Radboud University Nijmegen. Founded in 1985 by members of the local student union AKKU, it is now published by the Stichting Multimedia.
Interior Alaska is the central region of the U.S.
&quot;And did those feet in ancient time&quot; is a short poem by William Blake from the preface to his epic Milton a Poem, one of a collection of writings known as the Prophetic Books. The date of 1804 on the title page is probably when the plates were begun, but the poem was printed c.
In Alaska, the bush typically refers to any region of the State not connected to the North American road network or ready access to the State's Ferry System.  A large proportion of Alaska's native populations live in the bush, often substantially depending on subsistence hunting and fishing.
A Little Night Music is a musical with music and lyrics by  Stephen Sondheim and book by Hugh Wheeler. Inspired by the Ingmar Bergman film Smiles of a Summer Night, it involves the romantic lives of several couples.
Dual wielding is using two weapons, one in each hand, during combat. It is not a common combat practice.
}}
Romantic orientation, also called affectional orientation, indicates the sex or gender with which a person is most likely to have a romantic relationship or fall in love. It is used both alternatively and side-by-side with the term sexual orientation, and is based on the perspective that sexual attraction is but a single component of a larger dynamic.
Anyone Can Whistle is a musical with a book by Arthur Laurents and music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim. The story concerns a corrupt mayoress, an idealistic nurse, a man who may be a doctor, and various officials, patients and townspeople, all fighting to save a bankrupt town.
An alcopop (or cooler, spirit cooler in South African English, or malternative in American slang) is a term describing certain flavored alcoholic beverages with relatively low alcohol content (e.g.
Alçalı|other uses|}}
Ain't I a Woman?: Black women and feminism is a 1981 book by bell hooks titled after Sojourner Truth's &quot;Ain't I a Woman?
}}
In geometry, a convex uniform honeycomb is a uniform tessellation which fills three-dimensional Euclidean space with non-overlapping convex uniform polyhedral cells.
Assassination is the murder of a prominent person, often a political leader or ruler, usually for political reasons or payment.Black's Law Dictionary &quot;the act of deliberately killing someone especially a public figure, usually for hire or for political reasons&quot; (Legal Research, Analysis and Writing by William H.
An Audio optical disc is an optical disc that stores sound information such as music or speech.
Abstraction in its main sense is a conceptual process where general rules and concepts are derived from the usage and classification of specific examples, literal (&quot;real&quot; or &quot;concrete&quot;) signifiers, first principles, or other methods.
In abstract algebra, an abelian group, also called a commutative group, is a group in which the result of applying the group operation to two group elements does not depend on the order in which they are written. That is, these are the groups that obey the axiom of commutativity.
}}}}
Abracadabra is an incantation used as a magic word in stage magic tricks, and historically was believed to have healing powers when inscribed on an amulet.
The Acts of Union were two Acts of Parliament: the Union with Scotland Act 1706 passed by the Parliament of England, and the Union with England Act passed in 1707 by the Parliament of Scotland. They put into effect the terms of the Treaty of Union that had been agreed on 22 July 1706, following negotiation between commissioners representing the parliaments of the two countries.
The Admiralty formerly known as the Office of the Admiralty and Marine Affairs, was the government department responsible for the command of the Royal Navy first in the Kingdom of England, second in the Kingdom of Great Britain, and from 1801-1964, the United Kingdom and former British Empire. Originally exercised by a single person, the Lord High Admiral, the Admiralty was, from the early 18th century onwards, almost invariably put &quot;in commission&quot; and exercised by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who sat on the Board of Admiralty.
An amphibian is an ectothermic, tetrapod vertebrate.
Amputation is the removal of a limb by trauma, medical illness, or surgery. As a surgical measure, it is used to control pain or a disease process in the affected limb, such as malignancy or gangrene.
An anemometer is a device used for measuring the speed of wind, and is also a common weather station instrument. The term is derived from the Greek word anemos, which means wind, and is used to describe any wind speed measurement instrument used in meteorology.
Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States are the members of the Supreme Court of the United States other than the Chief Justice of the United States. The number of Associate Justices is determined by the United States Congress and is currently set at eight by the Judiciary Act of 1869.
Analcime or analcite (from the Greek analkimos - &quot;weak&quot;) is a white, gray, or colorless tectosilicate mineral.  Analcime consists of hydrated sodium aluminium silicate in cubic crystalline form.
Ambrose of Alexandria (before 212 – c. 250) was a friend of the Christian theologian Origen.
An autonomous building is a building designed to be operated independently from infrastructural support services such as the electric power grid, gas grid, municipal water systems, sewage treatment systems, storm drains, communication services, and in some cases, public roads.
A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by Burt Shevelove and Larry Gelbart.
The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA) was signed into law by President Richard Nixon on December 18, 1971, constituting at the time the largest land claims settlement in United States history. ANCSA was intended to resolve long-standing issues surrounding aboriginal land claims in Alaska, as well as to stimulate economic development throughout Alaska.
Adoptionism, sometimes called dynamic monarchianism, is a nontrinitarian theological doctrine which holds that Jesus was adopted as the Son of God at his baptism, his resurrection, or his ascension. According to Epiphanius's account of the Ebionites, the group believed that Jesus was chosen on account of his sinless devotion to the will of God.
Apollinarism or Apollinarianism was a view proposed by Apollinaris of Laodicea (died 390) that Jesus could not have had a human mind; rather,  Jesus had a human body and lower soul (the seat of the emotions) but a divine mind.
An acid–base reaction is a chemical reaction that occurs between an acid and a base. Several theoretical frameworks provide alternative conceptions of the reaction mechanisms and their application in solving related problems; these are called acid–base theories, for example, Brønsted–Lowry acid–base theory.
}}
An amyl alcohol is any of 8 alcohols with the formula C5H11OH.Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary 11th Ed.
}}
The Alpha Helix (α-helix) is a common motif in the  secondary structure of proteins and is a righthand-spiral conformation (i.e.
According to the Book of Revelation in the New Testament of the Bible, Armageddon (, from  Harmagedōn,Bibletranslation.wsScripturetext.
Athlon is the brand name applied to a series of x86-compatible microprocessors designed and manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices (AMD). The original Athlon (now called Athlon Classic) was the first seventh-generation x86 processor.
According to the Hebrew Bible, Amnon (, &quot;faithful&quot;) was the oldest son of David and his wife, Ahinoam, who is described as &quot;the Jezreelitess&quot;, born in Hebron when David was king of Judah.,
The Islamic conquest of Afghanistan (642–870) began in the middle of the 7th centuryA Historical Atlas of Afghanistan (2003), by Amy Romano, pg. 18.
(Pashto)
The Aimaq (), also transliterated as Aimak or Aymaq, are a collection of Persian-speaking nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes.Tom Lansford -A bitter harvest: US foreign policy and Afghanistan 2003 Page 25 &quot;The term Aimaq means &quot;tribe&quot; but the Aimaq people actually include several different ethnic groups.
}}
Oxford Dictionary: AldebaranMerriam-Webster: Aldebaran
,
(Chairman)}}
}}
In mathematics, the arithmetic–geometric mean (AGM) of two positive real numbers  and  is defined as follows:
( equivalent)
Aga or AGA may refer to:
In analytic geometry, an asymptote () of a curve is a line such that the distance between the curve and the line approaches zero as they tend to infinity. Some sources include the requirement that the curve may not cross the line infinitely often, but this is unusual for modern authors.
 €1.433 billion (2015)
In a computer's central processing unit (CPU), an accumulator is a register in which intermediate arithmetic and logic results are stored.
Arithmetic (from the Greek [Greek|ἀριθμός] arithmos, &quot;number&quot;) is a branch of mathematics that consists of the study of numbers, especially the properties of the traditional operations between them—addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. Arithmetic is an elementary part of number theory, and number theory is considered to be one of the top-level divisions of modern mathematics, along with algebra, geometry, and analysis.
{{Infobox settlement
Andersonville may refer to:
The Agra Canal is an important Indian irrigation work which starts from Okhla in Delhi. The Agra canal originates from Okhla barrage, downstream of Nizamuddin bridge.
Amakusa (天草), which means &quot;Heaven's Grass,&quot; is a series of islands off the west coast of Kyushu, the southernmost of the four main islands of Japan.
An afterglow is a broad arch of whitish or pinkish sunlight in the sky that is scattered by fine particulates like dust suspended in the atmosphere. An afterglow may appear above the highest clouds in the hour of fading twilight, or be reflected off high snowfields in mountain regions long after sunset.
Ammonius Grammaticus was a 4th-century Egyptian priest who, after the destruction of the pagan temple at Alexandria (389), fled to Constantinople, where he became the tutor of the ecclesiastical historian Socrates.Socrates Scholasticus, Hist.
In mathematics, particularly abstract algebra, an algebraic closure of a field K is an algebraic extension of K that is algebraically closed.  It is one of many closures in mathematics.
Advanced power management (APM) is an API developed by Intel and Microsoft and released in 1992 which enables an operating system running an IBM-compatible personal computer to work with the BIOS (part of the computer's firmware) to achieve power management.
In phonetics, aspiration is the strong burst of breath that accompanies either the release or, in the case of preaspiration, the closure of some obstruents. In English, aspirated consonants are allophones in complementary distribution with their unaspirated counterparts, but in some other languages, notably most Indian and East Asian languages, the difference is contrastive, while in Arabic and Persian, all stops are aspirated.
, ,
ATL,&quot;The service, dubbed the Atlanta Tourist Loop as a play on the city's 'ATL' nickname, will start April 29 downtown.&quot; &quot;Buses to link tourist favorites&quot; The Atlanta Journal-Constitution The A, Hotlanta, The Gate City.
Axiology (from Greek , [is the philosophical] study of [[value (ethics)|value. It is either the collective term for ethics and aestheticsRandom House Unabridged Dictionary Entry on Axiology.
17,000 to $110,000, depending on variant
477,131
The Lockheed AC-130 gunship is a heavily armed, long-endurance ground-attack variant of the C-130 Hercules transport fixed-wing aircraft. It carries a wide array of anti-ground oriented weapons that are integrated with sophisticated sensors, navigation, and fire-control systems.
Alternative may refer to:
In abstract algebra, an alternative algebra is an algebra in which multiplication need not be associative, only alternative. That is, one must have
In economics and finance, arbitrage (, , ) is the practice of taking advantage of a price difference between two or more markets: striking a combination of matching deals that capitalize upon the imbalance, the profit being the difference between the market prices.  When used by academics, an arbitrage is a (imagined, hypothetical, thought experiment) transaction that involves no negative cash flow at any probabilistic or temporal state and a positive cash flow in at least one state; in simple terms, it is the possibility of a risk-free profit after transaction costs.
In number theory, an arithmetic, arithmetical, or number-theoretic function is for most authorsNiven &amp; Zuckerman, 4.2.
ANSI C, ISO C and Standard C refer to the successive standards for the C programming language published by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).  Historically, the names referred specifically to the original and best-supported version of the standard (known as C89 or C90).
The Alien and Sedition Acts were four bills passed by the Federalist-dominated 5th United States Congress and signed into law by President John Adams in 1798. They made it harder for an immigrant to become a citizen (Naturalization Act), allowed the president to imprison and deport non-citizens who were deemed dangerous (Alien Friends Act of 1798)library.
Antinomy (Greek ἀντί, antí, &quot;against, in opposition to,&quot; and νόμος, nómos, &quot;law&quot;) refers to a real or apparent mutual incompatibility of two laws.Antinomy, Encyclopædia Britannica Online, accessed 8/27/2016 It is a term used in logic and epistemology, particularly in the philosophy of Kant and Roberto Unger.
In mathematics, the ascending chain condition (ACC) and descending chain condition (DCC) are finiteness properties satisfied by some algebraic structures, most importantly ideals in certain commutative rings.Hazewinkel, Gubareni &amp; Kirichenko (2004), p.
Attribution of recent climate change is the effort to scientifically ascertain mechanisms responsible for recent climate changes on Earth, commonly known as 'global warming'. The effort has focused on changes observed during the period of instrumental temperature record, when records are most reliable; particularly in the last 50 years, when human activity has grown fastest and observations of the troposphere have become available.
In economics, adaptive expectations is a hypothesized process by which people form their expectations about what will happen in the future based on what has happened in the past.  For example, if inflation has been higher than expected in the past, people would revise expectations for the future.
thumb|Visualisation of data obtained from an atom probe, each point represents a reconstructed atom position from detected evaporated ions.
In electronics, the figures of merit of an amplifier are numerical measures that characterize its properties and performance. Figures of merit can be given as a list of specifications that include properties such as gain, bandwidth, noise and linearity, among others listed in this article.
(1962)
Patriarch Athanasius of Alexandria|and|Pope Athanasius (disambiguation)Pope Athanasius}}
The Outback is the vast, remote interior of Australia. The term &quot;the Outback&quot; is generally used to refer to locations that are comparatively more remote than those areas named &quot;the bush&quot; which, colloquially, can refer to any lands outside the main urban areas.
The Absolute Infinite (symbol: Ω) is an extension of the idea of infinity proposed by mathematician Georg Cantor.
In engineering and its various subdisciplines, acceptance testing is a test conducted to determine if the requirements of a specification or contract are met. It may involve chemical tests, physical tests, or performance tests.
The Archbishopric of Riga (, ) was an archbishopric in Medieval Livonia, a subject to the Holy See. It was established in 1186 as the bishopric of Livonia at Üxküll, then after moving to Riga it became the bishopric of Riga in 1202 and was elevated to an archbishopric in 1255.
Tau cross with bell pendantLiechtenstein, the Princely Collections, catalogue of Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, p.276 patronage= Skin diseases, basket makers, brushmakers, gravediggers, Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy, Rome
}}
) (same H-M symbol)
Running amok, sometimes referred to as simply amok or gone amok, also spelled amuk, from the Malay language, is &quot;an episode of sudden mass assault against people or objects usually by a single individual following a period of brooding that has traditionally been regarded as occurring especially in Malay culture but is now increasingly viewed as psychopathological behavior&quot;. The syndrome of &quot;Amok&quot; is found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV TR).
The Apostles' Creed (Latin: Symbolum Apostolorum or Symbolum Apostolicum), sometimes entitled Symbol of the Apostles, is an early statement of Christian belief—a creed or &quot;symbol&quot;..}} It is widely used by a number of Christian denominations for both liturgical and catechetical purposes, most visibly by liturgical Churches of Western tradition, including the Roman Catholic Church, Lutheranism and Anglicanism.
Amicable numbers are two different numbers so related that the sum of the proper divisors of each is equal to the other number. (A proper divisor of a number is a positive factor of that number other than the number itself.
Agar (pronounced , ) or agar-agar is a jelly-like substance, obtained from algae.
Acid rain is a rain or any other form of precipitation that is unusually acidic, meaning that it possesses elevated levels of hydrogen ions (low pH). It can have harmful effects on plants, aquatic animals and infrastructure.
In church history, the term  (from Ancient Greek: ἀκέφαλοι &quot;headless&quot;, singular ἀκέφαλος akephalos from ἀ- a-, &quot;without&quot;, and κεφαλή kephalé, &quot;head&quot;) has been applied to several sects that supposedly had no leader. E.
12 September 1500
The Book of Alma (LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «ăl´ma») is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon.
thumb|right|250px|Model of the antioxidant [[metabolomics|metabolite glutathione. The yellow sphere is the redox-active sulfur atom that provides antioxidant activity, while the red, blue, white, and dark grey spheres represent oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, and carbon atoms, respectively.
Brass is a metallic  alloy that is made of copper and zinc. The proportions of zinc and copper can vary to create different types of brass alloys with varying mechanical and electrical properties.
Ballroom dance is a set of partner dances, which are enjoyed both socially and competitively around the world. Because of its performance and entertainment aspects, ballroom dance is also widely enjoyed on stage, film, and television.
(slightly east of the north tip of Gotland Island)
Brackish water or briny water is water that has more salinity  than fresh water, but not as much as seawater. It may result from mixing of seawater with fresh water, as in estuaries, or it may occur in brackish fossil aquifers.
}}
BLM may refer to:
Bluegrass refers to several species of grasses of the genus Poa (with the most famous being the Kentucky bluegrass)
City West, Brandenburg Gate,East Side Gallery (Berlin Wall), Oberbaum Bridge (River Spree),Reichstag building (Bundestag)
right|thumb|[[Blackletter L]]
Blue laws, also known as Sunday laws, are laws designed to restrict or ban some or all Sunday activities for religious reasons, particularly to promote the observance of a day of worship or rest. Blue laws may also restrict shopping or ban sale of certain items on specific days, most often on Sundays in the western world.
A bar is a retail establishment that serves alcoholic beverages; also the counter at which drinks are served.
Beer is the oldest and most widely consumed alcoholic drink in the world, and the third most popular drink overall after water and tea. Beer is brewed from cereal grains —most commonly from malted barley, though wheat, maize (corn), and rice are also used.
The bit (a portmanteau of binary digit) is a basic unit] of [[information used in computing and digital communications. A binary digit can have only one of two values, and may be physically represented with a two-state device.
The byte () is a unit of digital information that most commonly consists of eight bits. Historically, the byte was the number of bits used to encode a single character of text in a computer and for this reason it is the smallest addressable unit of memory in many computer architectures.
Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750) was a famous German composer of the Baroque period.
Beryllium is a chemical element with symbol Be and atomic number 4. It is a relatively rare element in the universe, usually occurring as a product of the spallation of larger atomic nuclei that have collided with cosmic rays.
The Bible (from Koine Greek τὰ βιβλία, tà biblía, &quot;the books&quot;) is a collection of sacred texts or scriptures that Jews and Christians consider to be a product of divine inspiration and a record of the relationship between God and humans.
thumb|right|250px|The [[Akashi Kaikyō Bridge in Japan, currently the world's longest suspension span.]]
Beadwork is the art or craft of attaching beads to one another by stringing them with a sewing needle or beading needle and thread or thin wire, or sewing them to cloth. Beads come in a variety of materials, shapes and sizes.
}}
thumb|250px|right|Beads
Bead weaving (or beadweaving) using seed beads can be done either on a loom or using one of a number of off-loom stitches.
}}
File:Bird Diversity 2013.png|300px
In card games, a burn card is a playing card dealt from the top of a deck, and discarded (&quot;burned&quot;), unused by the players. Burn cards are almost always placed face down next to the discard pile without being revealed to the players.
}}
right|thumb|[[Parsley is a common example of a biennial plant.]]
Bay leaf (plural bay leaves) refers to the aromatic leaves of several plants used in cooking. These include:
Basis may refer to:
}}
The Bromeliales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants.  Such an order has been recognized by a few systems of plant taxonomy, with a various placement.
A bulletin board system or BBS is a computer server running software that allows users to connect to the system using a terminal program. Once logged in, the user can perform functions such as uploading and downloading software and data, reading news and bulletins, and exchanging messages with other users through email, public message boards, and sometimes via direct chatting.
The String Quartet No. 16 in F major, op.
–24|location=Vienna}}
Opus 70 is a set of two Piano Trios by Ludwig van Beethoven, written for piano, violin, and cello. Both trios were composed during Beethoven's stay at Countess Marie von Erdödy's estate, and both are dedicated to her for her hospitality.
The Violin Sonata No. 5 in F major, Opus 24, is a violin sonata by Ludwig van Beethoven.
Barratry}}
A bomber is a combat aircraft designed to attack ground and sea targets by dropping air-to-ground weaponry (such as bombshells), firing torpedoes or deploying air-launched cruise missiles.
Cue sports (sometimes written cuesports), also known as billiard sports,
The Big/Great Dipper is the American English term for the seven brightest stars of Ursa Major (The Plough in British English).
}} |}}
}}
}}
}}
}}
(Rumi) (Jawi)
The Government of Barbados (GoB), is headed by the monarch, Queen Elizabeth II as Head of State.Constitution of Barbados: EXECUTIVE POWER (Chapter 6), Section 63.
The Government of the Republic of Belarus (), which consists of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus (), is the executive branch of state power in Belarus, and it is appointed by the President of Belarus. The head of the Government is the Prime Minister of Belarus, who manages the main agenda of the government and direct the ministers.
Telecommunications in Belarus involves the availability and use of electronic devices and services, such as the telephone, television, radio or computer, for the purpose of communication.
This article is about transport in Belarus.
The Byelorussian SSR was one of only two Soviet republics to be separate members of the United Nations (the other being the Ukrainian SSR). Both republics and the Soviet Union joined the UN when the organization was founded in 1945.
Communications in Belgium are extensive and advanced.  Belgium possesses the infrastructure for both mobile and land-based telecom, as well as having significant television, radio and internet infrastructure.
Transport in Belgium is facilitated with well-developed road, air, rail and water networks. The rail network has  of electrified tracks.
Different cultures through history have depicted blindness in a variety of ways; among the Greeks, for example, it was a punishment from the gods, for which the afflicted individual was often granted compensation in the form of artistic genius. Judeo-Christian literature positioned blindness as a flaw; only through a cure could God’s love be made manifest, when the scales would fall away from the eyes of an afflicted individual upon contact with a holy man or relic.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Bosnia and Herzegovina takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy, whereby executive power is exercised by the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Legislative power is vested in both the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
$15.568 billion (nominal, 2015 est.
}}
– 55  – 5 (all officers/advisers)
The implementation of the Dayton Accords of 1995 has focused the efforts of policymakers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the international community, on regional stabilization in the countries-successors of the former Yugoslavia. Relations with its neighbors of Croatia, Montenegro and Serbia have been fairly stable since the signing of the Dayton Agreement in 1995.
The Batswana, a term also used to denote all citizens of Botswana, refers to the country's major ethnic group (called the &quot;Tswana&quot; in Southern Africa). Prior to European contact, the Batswana lived as herders and farmers under tribal rule.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Botswana, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Botswana takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Botswana is both head of state and head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Botswana include newspapers, radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
thumb|right|200px|Map of Botswana
Botswana has put a premium on economic and political integration in southern Africa. It has sought to make the Southern African Development Community (SADC) a working vehicle for economic development, and it has promoted efforts to make the region self-policing in terms of preventative diplomacy, conflict resolution, and good governance.
The politics of Brazil take place in a framework of a federal presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. The political and administrative organization of Brazil comprises the federal government, the 26 states and a federal district, and the municipalities.
}}
Transport infrastructure in Brazil is characterized by strong regional differences and lack of development of the national rail network. Brazil's fast-growing economy, and especially the growth in exports, will place increasing demands on the transport networks.
President Michel Temer
The Ministry of External Relations is responsible for managing the foreign relations of Brazil. Brazil is a significant political and economic power in Latin America and a key player on the world stage.
thumb|right|300px|Map of British Virgin Islands
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the British Virgin Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and various other aspects.
Country Code: +1284
The systems of transport in the British Virgin Islands include 113 kilometres of highway and a harbour at Road Town.
thumb|150px
)PPP Rank: 123rd
}}
Brunei joined ASEAN on 7 January 1984, one week after resuming full independence, and gives its ASEAN membership the highest priority in its foreign relations. Brunei joined the United Nations in September 1984.
The politics of Bulgaria take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic,Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria whereby the Prime minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system.Bulgaria Library of Congress Country Study, Government and politics - overview, p.
$143.1 billion (PPP) (2016 est)
Telecommunications in Bulgaria include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Bulgaria is dominated by road transport, despite nearly half of all paved roads belonging to the lowest category of roads. As of December 2015, the country had 774 kilometers of highways.
right|thumb|280px|Map Of Burkina Faso
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Burkina Faso, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
}}
$28 Billion (PPP) ()$13 Billion (Nominal) ()
Telecommunications in Burkina Faso include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Burkina Faso consists primarily of road, air and rail transportation. The World Bank classified country's transportation as underdeveloped but noted that Burkina Faso is a natural geographic transportation hub for West Africa.
Burkina Faso has good relations with the European Union, African and Asian countries. France, the former colonial power, in particular, continues to provide significant aid and supports Compaoré's developing role as a regional powerbroker.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Burundi, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Burundi takes place in a framework of a transitional presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Burundi is both head of state and head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
)Rank: 173rd ()
Communications in Burundi include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, the Internet, and the postal service in Burundi.
There are a number of systems of transport in Burundi, including road and water-based infrastructure, the latter of which makes use of Lake Tanganyika.  Furthermore, there are also some airports in Burundi.
The National Defence Force is the state military organisation responsible for the defence of Burundi.
Burundi's relations with its neighbours have often been affected by security concerns. Hundreds of thousands of Burundian refugees have at various times crossed to neighboring Rwanda, Tanzania, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The Bosphorus ( or )The spelling Bosporus is listed first or exclusively in all major British and American dictionaries (e.g.
BE, B.E.
A bell is a percussion instrument, usually cup-shaped.
(as Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc.)
The brain is an organ that serves as the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate and most invertebrate animals. The brain is located in the head, usually close to the sensory organs for senses such  as vision.
Byzantion or Byzantium (;  Byzántion) was an ancient Greek colony in early antiquity that later became Constantinople, and later Istanbul.  Byzantium was colonized by the Greeks from Megara in .
Biotics describe living or once living components of a community; for example organisms, such as plants and animals.
* East Berlin (Soviet-occupied sector of Berlin)}}
thumb|right|[[Bass (voice type)|Bass voice range.Benward &amp; Saker (2003).
thumb|A replica (on a smaller scale) of the burning lens owned by [[Joseph Priestley, in his laboratory]]
Battle of Adrianople (378) was the main battle of the Gothic War (376–382).
A beacon is an intentionally conspicuous device designed to attract attention to a specific location.
Bhaṅgṛā (}}(Shahmukhi), ਭੰਗੜਾ (Gurmukhi); ) is a type of upbeat popular music associated with immigrant Punjabi youth. It was invented in England starting in the 1970s by people from the Punjab region of India and Pakistan.
}}
Britain usually refers to:
Bourbon may refer to:
The Belgian Blue (, ) is a breed of beef cattle from Belgium. It may also be known as the .
Boron is a chemical element with symbol B and atomic number 5. Produced entirely by cosmic ray spallation and supernovae and not by stellar nucleosynthesis, it is a low-abundance element in the Solar system and in the Earth's crust.
Bromine is a chemical element with symbol Br and atomic number 35. It is the third-lightest halogen, and is a fuming red-brown liquid at room temperature that evaporates readily to form a similarly coloured gas.
Barium is a chemical element with symbol Ba and atomic number 56. It is the fifth element in group 2 and is a soft, silvery alkaline earth metal.
Berkelium is a transuranic radioactive chemical element with symbol Bk and atomic number 97. It is a member of the actinide and transuranium element series.
Bauxite, an aluminium ore, is the world's main source of aluminium.  It consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite (Al(OH)3), boehmite (γ-AlO(OH)) and diaspore (α-AlO(OH)), mixed with the two iron oxides goethite and haematite, the clay mineral kaolinite and small amounts of anatase (TiO2) and ilmenite (FeTiO3 or FeO.
Bundesrat is a German word that means federal council and may refer to:
Bisexual may refer to:
A bay is an area of water bordered by land on three sides.
A book is a set of sheets of paper, parchment, or similar materials that are fastened together to hinge at one side. A single sheet within a book is a leaf, and each side of a leaf is a page.
The Boeing B-52 Stratofortress is an American strategic bomber aircraft.
BSE may refer to:
Body or BODY may refer to:
}}
John Howard, Duke of Norfolk   Henry Percy, Earl of Northumberland   John de la Pole, Earl of Lincoln   Thomas Howard, Earl of Surrey  Francis, Viscount Lovell
Different religious groups include different books in their Biblical canons, in varying orders, and sometimes divide or combine books. Christian Bibles range from the 66 books of the Protestant canon to the 81 books of the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church canon.
Baseball statistics play an important role in evaluating a player's and/or team's progress.
thumb|right|350px|[[Ichiro Suzuki at bat]]
In baseball, an earned run is any run that was fully enabled by the offensive team's production in the face of competent play from the defensive team.  Conversely, an unearned run is a run that would not have been scored without the aid of an error or a passed ball committed by the defense.
right|thumb|275px|Rashad Eldridge of the [[Oklahoma Redhawks walks to first base after drawing a base on balls.]]
In baseball statistics, total bases (TBs) is the number of bases a player has gained with hits. It is a weighted sum for which the weight value is 1 for a single, 2 for a double, 3 for a triple and 4 for a home run.
thumb|right|200px|[[Joe Crede of the Chicago White Sox after being hit by a pitch]]
upright|thumb|right|[[Pete Rose is the all-time leader in Major League Baseball hits, recording 4,256.]]
In baseball statistics, on-base percentage (OBP; sometimes referred to as on-base average/OBA, as the statistic is rarely presented as a true percentage) is a statistic generally measuring how frequently a batter reaches base.MLB Glossary Specifically, it records the ratio of the batter's times-on-base (TOB) (the sum of hits, walks, and times hit by pitch) to their number of plate appearances.
In baseball, a sacrifice fly (sometimes abbreviated to sac fly) is a batted ball that satisfies four criteria:
}}
thumb|The all-time stolen base leader, [[Rickey Henderson, steals third base in 1988.]]
thumb|right|200px|[[Jimmy Rollins holds the single season record for most plate appearances, at 778.]]
Games played (most often abbreviated as G or GP) is a statistic used in team sports to indicate the total number of games in which a player has participated (in any capacity); the statistic is generally applied irrespective of whatever portion of the game is contested.
Boogie Down Productions was a hip hop group, originally composed of KRS-One, D-Nice, and DJ Scott La Rock. DJ Scott La Rock was murdered on August 27, 1987, five months after the release of BDP's debut album, Criminal Minded.
250px|thumbnail|right|A [[binary clock might use LEDs to express binary values. In this clock, each column of LEDs shows a binary-coded decimal numeral of the traditional sexagesimal time.
BCD may refer to:
Binary may refer to:
Bilge Khagan (Old Turkic:   𐰋𐰃𐰠𐰏𐰀 𐰴𐰍𐰣, Bilge qaγan)Bilge kagan’s Memorial Complex, TÜRIK BITIG (683 – 25 November 734) was the khagan of the Second Turkic Khaganate. His accomplishments were described in the Orkhon inscriptions.
Staatliches Bauhaus (), commonly known simply as Bauhaus, was a German art school operational from 1919 to 1933 that combined crafts and the fine arts, and was famous for the approach to design that it publicised and taught.Oxford Dictionary of Art and Artists (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 4th edn.
Barb Wire was a superhero published by Comics Greatest World, an imprint of Dark Horse Comics. A regular series was published for 9 issues between 1994-1995, followed by a mini-series in 1996.
to this article, as a WP:PRIMARYREDIRECT. Please discuss at Talk:Bardot#Requested move 25 August 2017.
Colonial America
Baseball is a bat-and-ball game played between two teams of nine players each, who take turns batting and fielding. The batting team attempts to score runs by hitting a ball that is thrown by the opposing team's pitcher with a bat swung by the batter, then running counter-clockwise around a series of four bases: first, second, third, and home plate.
300px|right
thumb|right|300px|National League [[Baltimore Orioles (19th century)|Baltimore Orioles, 1896]]
}}
In Major League Baseball, the Rookie of the Year Award is annually given to one player from each league as voted on by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). The award was established in 1940 by the Chicago chapter of the BBWAA, which selected an annual winner from 1940 through 1946.
The National League Championship Series (NLCS) is a best-of-seven series played in October in the Major League Baseball postseason that determines the winner of the National League (NL) pennant. The winner of the series advances to play the winner of the American League (AL) Championship Series (ALCS) in the World Series, Major League Baseball's championship series.
The American League Championship Series (ALCS) is a best-of-seven series played in October in the Major League Baseball postseason that determines the winner of the American League (AL) pennant. The winner of the series advances to play the winner of the National League (NL) Championship Series (NLCS) in the World Series, Major League Baseball's championship series.
In Major League Baseball, the American League Division Series (ALDS) determines which teams will play in the American League Championship Series (ALCS). It is played in a best-of-five format.
In Major League Baseball, the National League Division Series (NLDS) determines which two teams from the National League will advance to the National League Championship Series. The Division Series consists of two best-of-five series, featuring the three division winners and the winner of the wild-card play-off.
, GA: 2
, GA: 
Bluetongue disease is a non-contagious, insect-borne, viral disease of ruminants, mainly sheep and less frequently cattle, goats, buffalo, deer, dromedaries, and antelope. It is caused by the Bluetongue virus (BTV).
}}
Bundle theory, originated by the 18th century Scottish philosopher David Hume, is the ontological theory about objecthood in which an object consists only of a collection (bundle) of properties, relations or tropes.
Biostatistics is the application of statistics to a wide range of topics in biology. The science of biostatistics encompasses the design of biological experiments, especially in medicine, pharmacy, agriculture and fishery; the collection, summarization, and analysis of data from those experiments; and the interpretation of, and inference from, the results.
&quot;Business statistics is the science of good decision making in the face of uncertainty and is used in many disciplines such as financial analysis,  econometrics , auditing, production and operations including services improvement and marketing research&quot;.•
Lists of people by characteristics include:
The Bible is a canonical collection of texts considered sacred in Judaism or Christianity. Different religious groups include different books within their canons, in different orders, and sometimes divide or combine books, or incorporate additional material into canonical books.
}}
. Springfield, Massachusetts, U.
Blowfish are species of fish in the Tetraodontidae family.
A ball is a round object (usually spherical but sometimes ovoid) with various uses. It is used in ball games, where the play of the game follows the state of the ball as it is hit, kicked or thrown by players.
In mathematics, a binary relation on a set A is a collection of ordered pairs of elements of A. In other words, it is a subset of the Cartesian product A2 = .
Bastille Day is the common name given in English-speaking countries/lands to the French National Day, which is celebrated on the 14th of July each year. In France, it is formally called  (; The National Celebration) and commonly and legallyArticle L.
for a class of weak keys, 14 rounds of Blowfish can be distinguished from a pseudorandom permutation (Vaudenay, 1996).
thumb|200px|A bijective function, f: X → Y, where set X is {1, 2, 3, 4} and set Y is {A, B, C, D}. For example, f(1) = D.
In mathematics, a binary function also called bivariate function, or function of two variables, is a function that takes two inputs.
In mathematics, a binary operation on a set is a calculation that combines two elements of the set (called operands) to produce another element of the set. More formally, a binary operation is an operation of arity two whose two domains and one codomain are the same set.
Bagpipes are a wind instrument using enclosed reeds fed from a constant reservoir of air in the form of a bag. Though the Scottish Great Highland bagpipes are the best known in the Anglophone world, bagpipes have been played for a millennium or more throughout large parts of Europe, northern Africa, and western Asia, including Turkey, the Caucasus, and around the Persian Gulf.
Bedrock Records is an English record label for trance, house and techno started by Nick Muir and John Digweed. Its name comes from a nightclub in London that is also called Bedrock.
Biochemistry, sometimes called biological chemistry, is the study of chemical processes within and relating to living organisms. By controlling information flow through biochemical signaling and the flow of chemical energy through metabolism, biochemical processes give rise to the complexity of life.
present
The Baroque ( or ) is a period of artistic style that used exaggerated motion and clear, easily interpreted detail to produce drama, tension, exuberance, and grandeur in sculpture, painting, architecture, literature, dance, theatre, and music. The style began around 1600 in Rome and Italy, and spread to most of Europe.
In abstract algebra, a Boolean algebra or Boolean lattice is a complemented distributive lattice. This type of algebraic structure captures essential properties of both set operations and logic operations.
British may refer to:
Beachcomber was the nom de plume used by two  humorous columnists, D. B.
right|300px|thumb|Baseband bandwidth. Here the bandwidth equals the upper frequency.
thumb|right|Twenty-five Bodhisattvas Descending from Heaven. Japanese painting, c.
Buckingham Palace () is the London residence and administrative headquarters of the reigning monarch of the United Kingdom.By tradition, the British Royal Court is officially resident at St James's Palace, which means that, while foreign ambassadors assuming their new position are received by the British sovereign at Buckingham Palace, they are accredited to the &quot;Court of St James's Palace&quot;.
A bicycle, also called a cycle or bike, is a human-powered, pedal-driven, single-track vehicle, having two wheels attached to a frame, one behind the other. A  is called a cyclist, or bicyclist.
Biopolymers are polymers produced by living organisms; in other words, they are polymeric biomolecules. Since they are polymers, biopolymers contain monomeric units that are covalently bonded to form larger structures.
11.9%)
The Book of Mormon is a sacred text of the Latter Day Saint movement, which adherents believe contains writings of ancient prophets who lived on the American continent from approximately 2200 BC to AD 421.Gordon B.
Baptists are individuals who comprise a group of Evangelical Christian denominations and churches that subscribe to a doctrine that baptism should be performed only for professing believers (believer's baptism, as opposed to infant baptism), and that it must be done by complete immersion (as opposed to affusion or sprinkling). Other tenets of Baptist churches include soul competency (liberty), salvation through faith alone, Scripture alone as the rule of faith and practice, and the autonomy of the local congregation.
Blackjack, also known as twenty-one, is a comparing card game between usually several players and a dealer, where each player in turn competes against the dealer, but players do not play against each other. It is played with one or more decks of 52 cards, and is the most widely played casino banking game in the world.
border
In mathematics, more specifically in functional analysis, a Banach space (pronounced ) is a complete normed vector space. Thus, a Banach space is a vector space with a metric that allows the computation of vector length and distance between vectors and is complete in the sense that a Cauchy sequence of vectors always converges to a well defined limit that is within the space.
Billion is a name for a large number. It may refer specifically to:
Contract bridge, or simply bridge, is a trick-taking card game using a standard 52-card deck. It is played by four players in two competing partnerships,, page 1.
A boat is a watercraft of a large range of sizes designed to float, plane, work or travel on water. Small boats are typically found on inland waterways (e.
Blood is a body fluid in humans and other animals that delivers necessary substances such as nutrients and oxygen to the cells and transports metabolic waste products away from those same cells.
But other sources suggest that he intended his middle initial B. to recursively mean Benoit B.
Benedict}}
The Battle of Pharsalus was a decisive battle of Caesar's Civil War. On 9 August 48 BC at Pharsalus in central Greece, Gaius Julius Caesar and his allies formed up opposite the army of the republic under the command of Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (&quot;Pompey the Great&quot;).
Base or BASE may refer to:
Bar Kokhba is a double album by John Zorn, recorded between 1994 and 1996.Tzadik catalogue It features music from Zorn's Masada project, rearranged for small ensembles.
This is a list of the Byzantine emperors from the foundation of Constantinople in 330 AD, which marks the conventional start of the Eastern Roman (or Byzantine) Empire, to its fall to the Ottoman Empire in 1453 AD. Only the emperors who were recognized as legitimate rulers and exercised sovereign authority are included, to the exclusion of junior co-emperors (symbasileis) who never attained the status of sole or senior ruler, as well as of the various usurpers or rebels who claimed the imperial title.
thumb|200px|right||A plot of Lorenz's [[strange attractor for values ρ=28, σ = 10, β = 8/3. The butterfly effect or sensitive dependence on initial conditions is the property of a dynamical system that, starting from any of various arbitrarily close alternative initial conditions on the attractor, the iterated points will become arbitrarily spread out from each other.
)
Black Flag or black flag may refer to:
Bubble tea (also known as pearl milk tea, bubble milk tea, boba juice, boba tea, or simply boba) (, with tapioca balls it is ) is a Taiwanese tea-based drink invented in Taichung in the 1980s. Most bubble tea recipes contain a tea base mixed/shaken with fruit or milk, to which chewy tapioca balls (known as bubbles, pearls, or boba) and fruit jelly are often added.
Danish Auxiliary Corps
A battleship is a large armored warship with a main battery consisting of large caliber guns. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries the battleship was the most powerful type of warship, and a fleet of battleships was vital for any nation that desired to maintain command of the sea.
In Norse mythology, Bifröst ( or sometimes Bilröst or Bivrost) is a burning rainbow bridge that reaches between Midgard (Earth) and Asgard, the realm of the gods. The bridge is attested as Bilröst in the Poetic Edda; compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and as Bifröst in the Prose Edda; written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds.
The battlecruiser, or battle cruiser, was a type of capital ship of the first half of the 20th century. They were similar in size, cost, and armament to battleships, but they generally carried less armour in order to obtain faster speeds.
thumb|right|&quot;Each arrow overshot his head&quot; (1902) by Elmer Boyd Smith.
In Norse mythology, BreiðablikThe name can be Anglicized as Breidablik, Breithablik or Breidhablik. (Broad-gleaming) is the home of Baldr.
Bilskirnir (Old Norse &quot;lightning-crack&quot;Orchard (1997:20).) is the hall of the god Thor in Norse mythology.
thumb|Heimdall returns Brisingamen to Freyja, in an anachronistic painting centuries after the era of the myth's popularity
In mathematics, the Borsuk–Ulam theorem (BUT), states that every continuous function from an n-sphere into Euclidean n-space maps some pair of antipodal points to the same point. Here, two points on a sphere are called antipodal if they are in exactly opposite directions from the sphere's center.
right|thumb|Bragi is shown with a harp and accompanied by his wife [[Iðunn in this 19th-century painting by Nils Blommér.]]
The Brittonic, Brythonic or British Celtic languages (, , ) form one of the two branches of the Insular Celtic language family; the other is Goidelic. The name Brythonic was derived by Welsh Celticist John Rhys from the Welsh word Brython, meaning an indigenous Briton as opposed to an Anglo-Saxon or Gael.
Hi-NRG, new wave
A barrel is a cylindrical container, traditionally made with wooden material.
A binary prefix is a unit prefix for multiples of units in data processing, data transmission, and digital information, notably the bit and the byte, to indicate multiplication by a power of 2.
}}
thumb|The suspected relationship of BQP to other problem spacesMichael Nielsen and Isaac Chuang (2000). Quantum Computation and Quantum Information.
Blade Runner 3: Replicant Night is a science fiction novel by American writer K. W.
Blade Runner 2: The Edge of Human (1995) is a science fiction novel by K. W.
Mindfuck}}
Bartolomeo Ammannati (18 June 151113 April 1592) was an Italian architect and sculptor, born at Settignano, near Florence. He studied under Baccio Bandinelli and Jacopo Sansovino (assisting on the design of the Library of St.
A bishop (English derivation (episkopos, &quot;overseer&quot;), from  (epi, &quot;over&quot;) +  (skopeō, &quot;I examine&quot;).}} from the New Testament of the Christian Bible Greek , epískopos, &quot;overseer&quot;, &quot;guardian&quot;) is an ordained, consecrated, or appointed member of the Christian clergy who is generally entrusted with a position of authority and oversight.
__NOTOC__
Neo Geo
A bone is a rigid organ that constitutes part of the vertebrate skeleton. Bones support and protect the various organs of the body, produce red and white blood cells, store minerals, provide structure and support for the body, and enable mobility.
Bretwalda (also brytenwalda and bretenanwealda, sometimes capitalized) is an Old English word. The first record comes from the late 9th-century Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.
Brouwer's fixed-point theorem is a fixed-point theorem in topology, named after Luitzen Brouwer. It states that for any continuous function f mapping a compact convex set into itself there is a point x_0 such that f(x_0)=x_0.
In statistical mechanics and mathematics, a Boltzmann distribution (also called Gibbs distribution Translated by J.B.
Leg theory is a bowling tactic in the sport of cricket. The term leg theory is somewhat archaic and seldom used any longer, but the basic tactic remains a play in modern cricket.
Bioleaching is the extraction of metals from their ores through the use of living organisms. This is much cleaner than the traditional heap leaching using cyanide.
Bouldering is a form of rock climbing that is performed on large boulders, small rock formations or artificial rock walls, without the use of ropes or harnesses. While it can be done without any equipment whatsoever, most climbers use climbing shoes to help secure footholds, chalk to keep their hands dry, and bouldering mats to prevent injuries from falls.
thumb|300px|Boiling waterThe boiling point of a substance is the temperature at which the vapor pressure of the liquid equals the pressure surrounding the liquid and the liquid changes into a vapor.
The Big Bang theory is the prevailing cosmological model for the universe from the earliest known periods through its subsequent large-scale evolution. The model describes how the universe expanded from a very high density and high temperature state, and offers a comprehensive explanation for a broad range of phenomena, including the abundance of light elements, the cosmic microwave background (CMB), large scale structure and Hubble's law.
Bock is a strong lager of German origin. Several substyles exist, including maibock (helles bock, heller bock), a paler, more hopped version generally made for consumption at spring festivals; doppelbock (double bock), a stronger and maltier version; and eisbock, a much stronger version made by partially freezing the beer and removing the ice that forms.
Bearing may refer to:
The midcourse phase and homing dive used ramjets.
long,UOL. Turismo em Boa Vista.
A bus (archaically also omnibus, multibus, motorbus, autobus) is a road vehicle designed to carry many passengers. Buses can have a capacity as high as 300 passengers.
}}
An n-gonal bipyramid or dipyramid is a polyhedron formed by joining an n-gonal pyramid and its mirror image base-to-base. An n-gonal bipyramid has 2n triangle faces, 3n edges, and 2 + n vertices.
The Beast of Bodmin Moor, also known as the Beast of Bodmin () is a phantom wild cat purported to live in Cornwall, England.  Bodmin Moor became a centre of purported sightings after 1978, with occasional reports of mutilated slain livestock; the alleged panther-like cats of the same region came to be popularly known as the Beast of Bodmin Moor.
The nickname Beeb may refer to:
The Boeing 767 is a mid- to large-size, mid- to long-range, wide-body twin-engine jet airliner built by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. It was Boeing's first wide-body twinjet and its first airliner with a two-crew glass cockpit.
A utility knife is a knife used for general or utility purposes.Peterson, Harold L.
thumb|The [[Artemision Bronze representing either Poseidon or Zeus, c. 460 BC, National Archaeological Museum, Athens.
A barge is a flat-bottomed boat, built mainly for river and canal transport of heavy goods. Some barges are not self-propelled and must be towed or pushed by towboats, canal barges or towed by draft animals on an adjacent towpath.
A battle is a combat in warfare between two or more armed forces, or combatants. A war sometimes consists of many battles.
Botanic}}
Bacillus thuringiensis (or Bt) is a Gram-positive, soil-dwelling bacterium, commonly used as a biological pesticide. B.
A bacteriophage , also known informally as a phage , is a virus that infects and replicates within a bacterium.  The term is derived from &quot;bacteria&quot; and the  (phagein), &quot;to devour&quot;.
A bactericide or bacteriocide, sometimes abbreviated Bcidal, is a substance that kills bacteria. Bactericides are disinfectants, antiseptics, or antibiotics.
Bulgarian may refer to:
Bunsen may refer to:
Bohrium is a chemical element with symbol Bh and atomic number 107. It is named after Danish physicist Niels Bohr.
A Bayer designation is a stellar designation in which a specific star is identified by a Greek letter, followed by the genitive form of its parent constellation's Latin name. The original list of Bayer designations contained 1,564 stars.
, genitive
Bernardino Ochino (1487–1564) was an Italian, who was raised a Roman Catholic and later turned to Protestantism.
The Bay of Quinte  is a long, narrow bay shaped like the letter &quot;Z&quot; on the northern shore of Lake Ontario in the province of Ontario, Canada. It is just west of the head of the Saint Lawrence River that drains the Great Lakes into the Gulf of Saint Lawrence.
1–E5 (A5)|210px|center|bottom}}
thumb|250px|An [[ostrich, the fastest extant biped at 70 km/h| group = lower-alpha }}]]
In general, bootstrapping usually refers to a self-starting process that is supposed to proceed without external input.  In computer technology the term (usually shortened to booting) usually refers to the process of loading the basic software into the memory of a computer after power-on or general reset, especially the operating system which will then take care of loading other software as needed.
The Baltic languages belong to the Balto-Slavic branch of the Indo-European language family. Baltic languages are spoken by the Balts, mainly in areas extending east and southeast of the Baltic Sea in Northern Europe.
thumbnail|220px|Map of the human X chromosome (from the National Center for Biotechnology Information website).
B25}}
The British Open is the Open Championship men's golf tournament.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning &quot;small room&quot;) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. A cell is the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and cells are often called the &quot;building blocks of life&quot;.
Barter is a system of exchange where goods or services are directly exchanged for other goods or services without using a medium of exchange, such as money.  It is distinguishable from gift economies in many ways; one of them is that the reciprocal exchange is immediate and not delayed in time.
)
OSB}}
1361
(The name of the real biological mother of Bayezid II is given as Meliketû'l-Melikât Gül-Bahar Valide Hâtun). or Sittişah HatunBahadıroğlu, Yavuz (2009) Ottoman History with Illustrations - Resimli Osmanlı Tarihi, Nesil Publications, 15th Ed.
border
(2016)http://www.thehindu.
}}
The Bahá'í Faith ( ) is a religion teaching the essential worth of all religions, and the unity and equality of all people. Established by Bahá'u'lláh in 1863, it initially grew in the Middle East and now has between 5 and 7 million adherents, known as Bahá'ís, spread out into most of the world's countries and territories, with the highest concentration in Iran.
The Burgundians (; ; ; ) were a large East Germanic or Vandal tribe, or group of tribes, who lived in the area of modern Poland in the time of the Roman Empire.
Dots and Boxes is a pencil-and-paper game for two players (sometimes more). It was first published in the 19th century by Édouard Lucas, who called it la pipopipette..
Big Brother is a fictional character and symbol in George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four. He is ostensibly the leader (most likely a symbolic figurehead) of Oceania, a totalitarian state wherein the ruling Party wields total power &quot;for its own sake&quot; over the inhabitants.
In computer science, binary search, also known as half-interval search, logarithmic search, or binary chop, is a search algorithm that finds the position of a target value within a sorted array. Binary search compares the target value to the middle element of the array; if they are unequal, the half in which the target cannot lie is eliminated and the search continues on the remaining half until it is successful.
folk rock, chamber pop
A broadcast domain is a logical division of a computer network, in which all nodes can reach each other by broadcast at the data link layer. A broadcast domain can be within the same LAN segment or it can be bridged to other LAN segments.
)
In propositional logic, biconditional introductionHurleyMoore and ParkerCopi and Cohen is a valid rule of inference. It allows for one to infer a biconditional from two conditional statements.
Biconditional elimination is the name of two valid rules of inference of propositional logic. It allows for one to infer a conditional from a biconditional.
A base pair (bp) is a unit consisting of two nucleobases bound to each other by hydrogen bonds.  They form the building blocks of the DNA double helix, and contribute to the folded structure of both DNA and RNA.
thumb|Funerary stela of one of [[Nero's Corporis Custodes, the imperial Germanic bodyguard. The bodyguard, Indus, was of the Batavian tribe.
Baptism (from the Greek noun βάπτισμα baptisma; see below) is a Christian sacrament of admission and adoption,St. Paul: Romans 8:15 &quot;the spirit of adoption&quot; (&quot;of sonship&quot; RSV), Galatians 4:5 &quot;adoption of sons&quot;, Ephesians 1:15 &quot;the adoption of children by Jesus Christ&quot; (&quot;to be his sons through Jesus Christ&quot; RSV).
thumb|right|200px|Italian men playing Bocce in [[San Giorgio a Cremano, Naples, Italy]]
}}
(Manx)Beltaine; BeltineChadwick, Nora (1970) The Celts London, Penguin.  p.
thumb|Benjamin (right) embracing his brother [[Joseph (Hebrew Bible)|Joseph.]]
Chronicles}}
}}
right|192px|thumb|A labeled binary tree of size 9 and height 3, with a root node whose value is 2. The above tree is unbalanced and not sorted.
In mathematics, specifically in measure theory, a Borel measure on  a topological space is a measure that is defined on all open sets (and thus on all Borel sets).D.
Black adder|Blackadder (disambiguation)}}
The Boii (Latin plural, singular Boius; ) were a Gallic tribe of the later Iron Age, attested at various times in Cisalpine Gaul (northern Italy), Pannonia (Hungary and its western neighbours), parts of Bavaria, in and around Bohemia (after whom the region is named in most languages; comprising the bulk of the Czech Republic),  and Gallia Narbonensis. In addition the archaeological evidence indicates that in the 2nd century BC Celts expanded from Bohemia through the Kłodzko Valley into Silesia, now part of Poland and the Czech Republic.
Backgammon is one of the oldest board games known. It is a two player game where playing pieces are moved according to the roll of dice, and a player wins by removing all of their pieces from the board before their opponent.
The Book of Joshua ( ) is the sixth book in the Hebrew Bible (the Christian Old Testament) and the first book of the Deuteronomistic history, the story of Israel from the conquest of Canaan to the Babylonian exile. It tells of the campaigns of the Israelites in central, southern and northern Canaan, the destruction of their enemies, and the division of the land among the Twelve Tribes, framed by two set-piece speeches, the first by God commanding the conquest of the land, and, at the end, the last by Joshua warning of the need for faithful observance of the Law (torah) revealed to Moses.
The Book of Ezra is a book of the Hebrew Bible. Originally combined with the Book of Nehemiah in a single book of Ezra–Nehemiah, the two became separated in the early centuries of the Christian era.
The Book of Daniel is a biblical apocalypse, combining a prophecy of history with an eschatology (the study of last things) which is both cosmic in scope and political in its focus. In more mundane language, it is &quot;an account of the activities and visions of Daniel, a noble Jew exiled at Babylon.
}}
Brittonic or Brythonic may refer to:
The Bastarnae (Latin variants: Bastarni, or Basternae; ) were an ancient people who between 200 BC and 300 AD inhabited the region between the Carpathian mountains and the river Dnieper, to the north and east of ancient Dacia. The Peucini, denoted a branch of the Bastarnae by Greco-Roman writers, occupied the region north of the Danube delta.
Bavarian is the adjective form of the German state of Bavaria, and refers to people of ancestry from Bavaria.
Radio 1}}
thumb|right|300px|Major components on a PICMG 1.3 active backplane
thumb|U.S Army band baldric
south of Brussels
A boomerang is a tool, typically constructed as a flat airfoil that, when thrown, is designed to spin about an axis perpendicular to the direction of its flight. A returning boomerang is designed to return to the thrower.
Bodybuilding is the use of progressive resistance exercise to control and develop one's musculature. An individual who engages in this activity is referred to as a bodybuilder.
Biological warfare (BW)—also known as germ warfare—is the use of biological toxins or infectious agents such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi with the intent to kill or incapacitate humans, animals or plants as an act of war. Biological weapons (often termed &quot;bio-weapons&quot;, &quot;biological threat agents&quot;, or &quot;bio-agents&quot;) are living organisms or replicating entities (viruses, which are not universally considered &quot;alive&quot;) that reproduce or replicate within their host victims.
The Book of Nehemiah is a book of the Hebrew Bible often conjoined with the Book of Ezra. Told largely in the form of a first-person memoir, it concerns the rebuilding of the walls of Jerusalem by Nehemiah, a Jew who is a high official at the Persian court, and the dedication of the city and its people to God's laws (Torah).
The Book of Jeremiah (; abbreviated Jer. or Jerem. in citations) is the second of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible, and the second of the Prophets in the Christian Old Testament. The superscription at chapter 1:1–3 identifies it as &quot;the words of Jeremiah son of Hilkiah,&quot; and places the prophet historically from the reforms of king Josiah in 627 BCE through to the assassination of the Babylonian-appointed governor of Judah in 582. Of all the prophets, Jeremiah comes through most clearly as a person, ruminating to his scribe Baruch about his role as a servant of God with little good news for his audience.
The Book of Isaiah (, ) is the first of the Latter Prophets in the Hebrew Bible and the first of the Major Prophets in the Christian Old Testament. The book is identified by a [as the works of the 8th-century BCE prophet Isaiah] ben Amoz, but there is ample evidence that much of it was composed during the [[Babylonian captivity and later.
In mathematics, a bilinear map is a function combining elements of two vector spaces to yield an element of a third vector space, and is linear in each of its arguments. Matrix multiplication is an example.
Cuir bouilli, generally translated as boiled leather, was a historical construction material for some armour in the Medieval period.
In computer security and programming, a buffer overflow, or buffer overrun, is an anomaly where a program, while writing data to a buffer, overruns the buffer's boundary and overwrites adjacent memory locations.
Bug may refer to:
The Book of Numbers (from Greek Ἀριθμοί, Arithmoi; , Bəmiḏbar, &quot;In the desert [of]&quot;) is the fourth book of the Hebrew Bible, and the fourth of five books of the Jewish Torah. The book has a long and complex history, but its final form is probably due to a Priestly redaction (i.
The Book of Judges (Hebrew: Sefer Shoftim ספר שופטים) is the seventh book of the Hebrew Bible and the Christian Bible. It contains the history of the Biblical judges, the divinely inspired leaders whose direct knowledge of Yahweh allows them to act as champions for the Israelites against oppression by foreign rulers, and models of the wise and faithful behaviour required of them by their God Yahweh following the exodus from Egypt and the conquest of Canaan.
The two Books of Samuel (), 1 Samuel and 2 Samuel, form part of the narrative history of Israel in the Nevi'im or &quot;prophets&quot; section of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament, and are considered by many biblical scholars to belong to the Deuteronomistic history, a series of books (Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings) which constitute a theological history of the Israelites and aim to explain God's law for Israel under the guidance of the prophets. According to Jewish tradition, the book was written by Samuel, with additions by the prophets Gad and Nathan; modern scholarly thinking is that the entire Deuteronomistic history was composed in the period c.
The Book of Revelation, often called the Revelation to John, the Apocalypse of John, The Revelation, or simply Revelation or Apocalypse, is a book of the New Testament that occupies a central place in Christian eschatology. Its title is derived from the first word of the text, written in Koine Greek: apokalypsis, meaning &quot;unveiling&quot; or &quot;revelation&quot; (before title pages and titles, books were commonly known by their first words, as is also the case of the Hebrew Five Books of Moses (Torah)).
Book of Kings}}
The Book of Ruth (, Ashkenazi pronunciation: , Megilath Ruth, &quot;the Scroll of Ruth&quot;, one of the Five Megillot) is included in the third division, or the Writings (Ketuvim), of the Hebrew Bible; in most Christian canons it is treated as a history book and placed between Judges and 1 Samuel, as it is set &quot;in the days when the judges judged&quot;, although the Syriac Christian tradition places it later, between Ecclesiastes and the Song of Songs. It is named after its central figure, Ruth the Moabitess, the great-grandmother of David.
The Book of Esther, also known in Hebrew as &quot;the Scroll&quot; (Megillah), is a book in the third section (Ketuvim, &quot;Writings&quot;) of the Jewish Tanakh (the Hebrew Bible) and in the Christian Old Testament. It relates the story of a Hebrew woman in Persia, born as Hadassah but known as Esther, who becomes queen of Persia and thwarts a genocide of her people.
billion (2015/16)
}}
The Book of Job (; Hebrew: אִיוֹב Iyov) is a book in the Ketuvim (&quot;Writings&quot;) section of the Hebrew Bible (Tanakh), and the first poetic book in the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. Addressing the problem of theodicy – the vindication of the justice of God in the light of humanity's suffering – it is a rich theological work setting out a variety of perspectives.
Browse, browser or browsing may refer to:
The Book of Proverbs (Hebrew: מִשְלֵי, Míshlê (Shlomoh), &quot;Proverbs (of Solomon)&quot;) is the second book of the third section (called Writings) of the Hebrew Bible and a book of the Christian Old Testament. When translated into Greek and Latin, the title took on different forms: in the Greek Septuagint (LXX) it became Παροιμίαι Paroimiai (&quot;Proverbs&quot;); in the Latin Vulgate the title was Proverbia, from which the English name is derived.
The Book of Lamentations (, ‘Êykhôh, from its incipit meaning &quot;how&quot;) is a collection of poetic laments for the destruction of Jerusalem. In the Hebrew Bible it appears in the Ketuvim (&quot;Writings&quot;), beside the Song of Songs, Book of Ruth, Ecclesiastes and the Book of Esther (the Megilloth or &quot;Five Scrolls&quot;), although there is no set order; in the Christian Old Testament it follows the Book of Jeremiah, as the prophet Jeremiah is its traditional author.
The Book of Ezekiel is the third of the Latter Prophets in the Tanakh and one of the major prophetic books in the Old Testament, following Isaiah and Jeremiah. According to the book itself, it records six visions of the prophet Ezekiel, exiled in Babylon, during the 22 years 593–571 BCE, although it is the product of a long and complex history and does not necessarily preserve the very words of the prophet.
as Bristol South End
Bioterrorism is terrorism involving the intentional release or dissemination of biological agents. These agents are bacteria, viruses, or toxins, and may be in a naturally occurring or a human-modified form.
* Bitter (emotion), negative emotion or attitude, similar to being jaded, cynical or otherwise negatively affected by experience
The  Northrop (later Northrop Grumman) B-2 Spirit, also known as the Stealth Bomber, is an American heavy penetration strategic bomber, featuring low observable stealth technology designed for penetrating dense anti-aircraft defenses; it is a flying wing design with a crew of two.Thornborough, A.
Late Miocene – Recent
Late Eocene – Recent
Middle Pleistocene-Holocene
BCS theory or Bardeen–Cooper–Schrieffer theory (named after John Bardeen, Leon Cooper, and John Robert Schrieffer) is the first microscopic theory of superconductivity since  Heike Kamerlingh Onnes's 1911 discovery. The theory describes superconductivity as a microscopic effect caused by a condensation of Cooper pairs into a boson-like state.
The biathlon is a winter sport that combines cross-country skiing and rifle shooting.
Bubble and squeak is a traditional English dish made with the shallow-fried leftover vegetables from a roast dinner. The main ingredients are potato and cabbage, but carrots, peas, Brussels sprouts, or any other leftover vegetables can be added.
Brewing is the production of beer by steeping a starch source (commonly cereal grains, the most popular of which is barley) in water and fermenting the resulting sweet liquid with yeast.  It may be done in a brewery by a commercial brewer, at home by a homebrewer, or by a variety of traditional methods such as communally by the indigenous peoples in Brazil when making cauim.
Benz, which originated as a German nickname for Berthold or Bernhard, may refer to:
Breast reconstruction is the rebuilding of a breast, usually in women. It involves using autologous tissue or prosthetic material to construct a natural-looking breast.
Bob Diamond may refer to:
thumb|Cars under wire on Red Hook
A  beta-lactam (β-lactam) ring is a four-membered lactam. (A lactam is a cyclic amide.
{{Infobox Former Country
BASE jumping, also sometimes written as B.A.
Beauty  is a characteristic of an animal, idea, object, person or place that provides a perceptual experience of pleasure or satisfaction. Beauty is studied as part of aesthetics, culture,  social psychology, philosophy and sociology.
Brownian motion or pedesis (from   &quot;leaping&quot;) is the random motion of particles suspended in a fluid (a liquid or a gas) resulting from their collision with the fast-moving atoms or molecules in the gas or liquid.
Abbreviation(s):  Barna, BCN
Robert (Bob) M. Frankston (born June 14, 1949 in Brooklyn, New York) is the co-creator with Dan Bricklin of the VisiCalc spreadsheet program and the co-founder of Software Arts, the company that developed it.
}}
The Book of Joel is part of the Hebrew Bible.  Joel is part of a group of twelve prophetic books known as the Twelve Minor Prophets.
}}
The Book of Obadiah is an oracle concerning the divine judgment of Edom and the restoration of Israel.Coogan, M.
The Book of Jonah is one of the Prophets in the Bible. It tells of a Hebrew prophet named Jonah son of Amittai who is sent by God to prophesy the destruction of Nineveh but tries to escape the divine mission.
The Book of Micah is a prophetic book in the TanakhOld Testament, and the sixth of the twelve minor prophets.Ben Zvi (2000), p.
The Book of Nahum is the seventh book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is attributed to the prophet Nahum, and was probably written in Jerusalem in the 7th century BC.
The Book of Haggai is a book of the Hebrew Bible or Tanakh, and has its place as the third-to-last of the Minor Prophets. It is a short book, consisting of only two chapters.
Malachi (or Malachias; , Malʾaḫi, Mál'akhî) is the last book of the Neviim contained in the Tanakh, the last of the Twelve Minor Prophets (canonically) and the final book of the Neviim.  In the Christian ordering, the grouping of the Prophetic Books is the last section of the Old Testament, making Malachi the last book before the New Testament.
The Book of Zechariah, attributed to the Hebrew prophet Zechariah,  is included in the Twelve Minor Prophets in the Hebrew Bible.
The Book of Zephaniah (, ) is the ninth of the Twelve Minor Prophets, preceded by the Book of Habakkuk and followed by the Book of Haggai. Zephaniah means &quot;Yahweh has hidden/protected,&quot; &quot;Yahweh hides,&quot; or &quot;Yahweh is my secret.
The Book of Habakkuk is the eighth book of the 12 minor prophets of the Hebrew Bible. It is attributed to the prophet Habakkuk, and was probably composed in the late 7th century BC.
Backward compatibility is a property of a system, product, or technology that allows for interoperability with an older legacy system, or with input designed for such a system, especially in telecommunications and computing. Backward compatibility is sometimes abbreviated to BC, or called downward compatibility.
Bacterial conjugation is the transfer of genetic material between bacterial cells by direct cell-to-cell contact or by a bridge-like connection between two cells. It is a mechanism of horizontal gene transfer as are transformation and transduction although these two other mechanisms do not involve cell-to-cell contact.
The galjoen, black bream, or blackfish (Dichistius capensis) is a species of marine fish found only along the  coast of southern Africa from Angola to South Africa.
Mohammed Hussein redirects here; for the Muslim cleric, see Muhammad Ahmad Hussein.
Buddhist philosophy refers to the philosophical investigations and systems of inquiry that developed among various Buddhist schools in India following the death of the Buddha and later spread throughout Asia. Buddhism's main concern has always been freedom from dukkha (unease),Gunnar Skirbekk, Nils Gilje, A history of Western thought: from ancient Greece to the twentieth century.
For IBM PC compatible computers, BIOS ( , an acronym for Basic Input/Output System and also known as the System BIOS, ROM BIOS or PC BIOS) is non-volatile firmware used to perform hardware initialization during the booting process (power-on startup), and to provide runtime services for operating systems and programs. The BIOS firmware comes pre-installed on a personal computer's system board, and it is the first software run when powered on.
A Bose–Einstein condensate (BEC) is a state of matter of a dilute gas of bosons cooled to temperatures very close to absolute zero (that is, very near  or ). Under such conditions, a large fraction of bosons occupy the lowest quantum state, at which point microscopic quantum phenomena, particularly wavefunction interference, become apparent.
http://www.britannica.
The Beer–Lambert law, also known as Beer's law, the Lambert–Beer law, or the Beer–Lambert–Bouguer law relates the attenuation of light to the properties of the material through which the light is travelling. The law is commonly applied to chemical analysis measurements and used in understanding attenuation in physical optics, for photons, neutrons or rarefied gases.
BCE or B.C.
BC may refer to:
}}
thumb|&quot;Painted Pony&quot; dry bean ([[Phaseolus vulgaris)]]
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to biology:
The British thermal unit (Btu or BTU) is a traditional unit of heat; it is defined as the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. It is part of the United States customary units.
Benchmark may refer to:
Band or BAND may refer to:
The Black Death was one of the most devastating pandemics in human history, resulting in the deaths of an estimated  people in Eurasia and peaking in Europe in the years 1346–1353. Although there were several competing theories as to the cause of the Black Death, analyses of DNA from people in northern and southern Europe published in 2010 and 2011 indicate that the pathogen responsible was the Yersinia pestis bacterium, resulting in several forms of plague, including the bubonic plague.
Biotechnology is the use of living systems and organisms to develop or make products, or &quot;any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms, or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use&quot; (UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Art. 2).
The backbone cabal was an informal organization of large-site administrators of the worldwide distributed newsgroup-based discussion system Usenet. It existed from about 1983 at least into the 2000s.
The bunyip is a large mythical creature from Australian Aboriginal mythology, said to lurk in swamps, billabongs, creeks, riverbeds, and [origin of the word bunyip has been traced to the Wemba-Wemba] or Wergaia language of Aboriginal people of South-Eastern Australia. However, the bunyip appears to have formed part of traditional Aboriginal beliefs and stories throughout Australia, although its name varied according to tribal nomenclature.
Brabant is a region in the Low Countries. It may refer to:
thumb|400px|Bunworth Banshee, &quot;Fairy Legends and Traditions of the South of Ireland&quot;, by Thomas Crofton Croker, 1825
Genetically modified maize (corn) is a genetically modified crop. Specific maize strains have been genetically engineered to express agriculturally-desirable traits, including resistance to pests and to herbicides.
Body substance isolation is a practice of isolating all body substances (blood, urine, feces, tears, etc.) of individuals undergoing medical treatment, particularly emergency medical treatment of those who might be infected with illnesses such as HIV, or hepatitis so as to reduce as much as possible the chances of transmitting these illnesses.
or 61 AD
}}
The Burroughs Corporation was a major American manufacturer of business equipment. The company was founded in 1886 as the American Arithmometer Company, and after the 1986 merger with Sperry UNIVAC was renamed Unisys.
A brick is building material used to make walls, pavements and other elements in masonry construction.  Traditionally, the term brick referred to a unit composed of clay, but it is now used to denote any rectangular units laid in mortar.
Béla Viktor János Bartók (; ; 25 March 1881 – 26 September 1945) was a Hungarian composer,  pianist and an ethnomusicologist. He is considered one of the most important composers of the 20th century; he and Liszt are regarded as Hungary's greatest composers .
Blitz, German for &quot;lightning&quot;, may refer to:
5.5 million
thumb|250px|[[Color bars with burnt-in timecode]]
In quantum mechanics, bra–ket notation is a standard notation for describing quantum states. The notation uses angle brackets (&quot;\langle&quot;, and &quot;\rangle&quot;) and vertical bars (&quot;\mid&quot;).
Dominant]]
A blizzard is a severe snowstorm characterized by strong sustained winds of at least 35 mph (56 km/h) and lasting for a prolonged period of time—typically three hours or more. A ground blizzard is a weather condition where snow is not falling but loose snow on the ground is lifted and blown by strong winds.
thumb|upright=1.30|Selection of bikinis in shop window in the United States, 2005
Babar}}
The Bambara (Bamana) language, Bamanankan, is a lingua franca and national language of Mali spoken by perhaps 15 million people, natively by 5 million Bambara people and about 10 million second-language users. It is estimated that about 80 percent of the population of Mali speak Bambara as a first or second language.
}}
貘}} are Japanese supernatural beings that devour dreams and nightmares. According to legend, they were created by the spare pieces that were left over when the gods finished creating all other animals.
1680
Bangor may refer to:
A ballad  is a form of verse, often a narrative set to music. Ballads derive from the medieval French chanson balladée or ballade, which were originally &quot;danced songs.
Battery Park City is a mainly residential  planned community on the west side of the southern tip of the island of Manhattan in New York City. More than one-third of the development is parkland.
Early Pleistocene – Recent
A baryon is a composite subatomic particle made up of three quarks (a triquark, as distinct from mesons, which are composed of one quark and one antiquark).  Baryons and mesons belong to the hadron family of particles, which are the quark-based particles.
A braille embosser is an impact printer that renders text as tactile braille cells. Using braille translation software, a document can be embossed with relative ease, making braille production efficient and cost-effective.
Basic Role-Playing (BRP) is a role-playing game system which originated in the RuneQuest fantasy role-playing game. The BRP standalone booklet was first released in 1980 in the boxes set release of the second edition of RuneQuest.
In cryptography, a block cipher is a deterministic algorithm operating on fixed-length groups of bits, called a block, with an unvarying transformation that is specified by a symmetric key. Block ciphers operate as important elementary components in the design of many cryptographic protocols, and are widely used to implement encryption of bulk data.
Wireless broadband is technology that provides high-speed wireless Internet access or computer networking access over a wide area.
thumb|250px|Class diagram
Barrabas}}
, , , , , , , , , , ,
The Boeing 747 is an American wide-body commercial jet airliner and cargo aircraft, often referred to by its original nickname, Jumbo Jet. Its distinctive &quot;hump&quot; upper deck along the forward part of the aircraft makes it among the world's most recognizable aircraft, and it was the first wide-body produced.
Burgundian can refer to any of the following:
The Bronze Age is a historical period characterized by the use of bronze, proto-writing, and other early features of urban civilization. The Bronze Age is the second principal period of the three-age Stone-Bronze-Iron system, as proposed in modern times by Christian Jürgensen Thomsen, for classifying and studying ancient societies.
in Sleepy Hollow
The bilinear transform (also known as Tustin's method or Mobius Transformation) is used in digital signal processing and discrete-time control theory to transform continuous-time system representations to discrete-time and vice versa.
Political scandals in the United Kingdom are commonly referred to by the press and commentators as &quot;'sleaze&quot;.
}}
Pause}}
Bogey}}
British Steel plc was a major British steel producer. It originated from the nationalised British Steel Corporation (BSC), formed in 1967 which was privatised as a public limited company, British Steel plc in 1988.
FTSE 100 Component
A broch () is an Iron Age drystone hollow-walled structure of a type found only in Scotland. Brochs belong to the classification &quot;complex atlantic roundhouse&quot; devised by Scottish archaeologists in the 1980s.
A black hole is a region of spacetime exhibiting such strong gravitational effects that nothing—not even particles and electromagnetic radiation such as light—can escape from inside it.  The theory of general relativity predicts that a sufficiently compact mass can deform spacetime to form a black hole.
thumb|240px| decay in an [[atomic nucleus (the accompanying antineutrino is omitted). The inset shows beta decay of a free neutron.
Blitzkrieg (German, &quot;lightning war&quot;) is a method of warfare whereby an attacking force, spearheaded by a dense concentration of armoured and motorised or mechanised infantry formations with close air support, breaks through the opponent's line of defence by short, fast, powerful attacks and then dislocates the defenders, using speed and surprise to encircle them. Through the employment of combined arms in manoeuvre warfare, blitzkrieg attempts to unbalance the enemy by making it difficult for it to respond to the continuously changing front, then defeat it in a decisive   (battle of annihilation).
The Beano is the longest running Scottish children's comic, published by DC Thomson. The comic first appeared on 30 July 1938, and was published weekly.
Basque}}
Blot may refer to:
Bookkeeping is the recording of financial transactions, and is part of the process of accounting in business.  Transactions include purchases, sales, receipts, and payments by an individual person or an organization/corporation.
thumb|right|300px|Cubic Bézier curve with four control points
In mathematics, especially functional analysis, a Banach algebra, named after Stefan Banach, is an associative algebra A over the real or complex numbers (or over a non-Archimedean complete normed field) that at the same time is also a Banach space, i.e. a normed space and complete in the metric induced by the norm. The norm is required to satisfy
right|thumb|200px|The binomial coefficients can be arranged to form [[Pascal's triangle.]]
Bill Holbrook (born 1958) is an American cartoonist and webcomic writer and artist, best known for his syndicated comic strip On the Fastrack.
Baron Aberdare, of Duffryn in the County of Glamorgan, is a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 23 August 1873 for the Liberal politician Henry Bruce.
A boy band (or boyband) is loosely defined as a vocal group consisting of young male singers, usually in their teenage years or in their twenties at the time of formation, singing love songs marketed towards young females. Being vocal groups, most boy band members do not play musical instruments, either in recording sessions or on stage, making the term something of a misnomer.
In computer science, a B-tree is a self-balancing tree data structure that keeps data sorted and allows searches, sequential access, insertions, and deletions in logarithmic time. The B-tree is a generalization of a binary search tree in that a node can have more than two children .
Bloody Sunday may refer to:
In elementary algebra, the binomial theorem (or binomial expansion) describes the algebraic expansion of powers of a binomial.  According to the theorem, it is possible to expand the polynomial  into a sum involving terms of the form , where the exponents  and  are nonnegative integers with  n}}, and the coefficient  of each term is a specific positive integer depending on  and .
Balboa may refer to:
Boxing Day is a holiday celebrated the day after Christmas Day. It originated in the United Kingdom, and is celebrated in a number of countries that previously formed part of the British Empire.
Balsall Heath is a working class, inner-city area of Birmingham, West Midlands, England. It has a diverse cultural mix of people and is the location of the Balti Triangle.
Bunge y Born was a multinational corporation based in Buenos Aires, Argentina, whose diverse interests included food processing and international trade in grains and oilseeds. It is now known as Bunge Limited.
}}
}}
thumb|Notice of closure attached to the door of a Computer Shop outlet the day after its parent company declared &quot;bankruptcy&quot; (strictly, put into administration) in the [[United Kingdom]]
Blissymbols or Blissymbolics was conceived as an ideographic writing system called Semantography consisting of several hundred basic symbols, each representing a concept, which can be composed together to generate new symbols that represent new concepts. Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
Bessel functions, first defined by the mathematician Daniel Bernoulli and then generalized by Friedrich Bessel, are the canonical solutions y(x) of Bessel's differential equation
In computer science, the Boolean satisfiability problem (sometimes called Propositional Satisfiability Problem and abbreviated as SATISFIABILITY or SAT) is the problem of determining if there exists an interpretation that satisfies a given Boolean formula. In other words, it asks whether the variables of a given Boolean formula can be consistently replaced by the values TRUE or FALSE in such a way that the formula evaluates to TRUE.
A Bohemian () is a resident of Bohemia, a region of the Czech Republic or the former Kingdom of Bohemia, a region of the former Crown of Bohemia (lands of the Bohemian Crown). In English, the word &quot;Bohemian&quot; was used to denote the Czech people as well as the Czech language before the word &quot;Czech&quot; became prevalent in the early 20th century.
border
Bill Finger (uncredited)}}
*
}}
Bi-directional text is text containing text in both text directionalities, both right-to-left (RTL or dextrosinistral) and left-to-right (LTR or sinistrodextral). It generally involves text containing different types of alphabets, but may also refer to boustrophedon, which is changing text directionality in each row.
In real analysis, Bernoulli's inequality (named after Jacob Bernoulli) is an inequality that approximates exponentiations of 1 + x.
The Benjamin Franklin-class submarine was a group of US ballistic missile submarines that were in Navy service from the 1960s–2000s. The class was an evolutionary development from the earlier  of fleet ballistic missile submarine.
The Bastard Operator From Hell (BOFH) is  a fictional rogue computer operator who takes out his anger on users and others who pester him with their computer problems, uses his expertise against his enemies and manipulates his employer.
Black Woman}}
Plague}}
The Baudot code, invented by Émile Baudot, is a character set predating EBCDIC and ASCII. It was the predecessor to the International Telegraph Alphabet No.
Blu Tack is a reusable putty-like pressure-sensitive adhesive produced by Bostik, commonly used to attach lightweight objects (such as posters or sheets of paper) to walls or other dry surfaces. Traditionally blue, it is also available in other colours.
B. amylolyticus
Bakassi is a peninsula on the Gulf of Guinea. It lies between the Cross River estuary, near the city of Calabar in the west, and the Rio del Ray estuary on the east.
right|thumb|200px|&quot;The [[Leopard&quot; from the 13th-century bestiary known as the &quot;Rochester Bestiary&quot;]]
Baroque dance is dance of the Baroque era (roughly 1600-1750), closely linked with Baroque music, theatre and opera.
Business ethics  (also known as corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations.
BBS may refer to:
British Standards are the standards produced by BSI Group which is incorporated under a Royal Charter (and which is formally designated as the National Standards Body (NSB) for the UK). The BSI Group produces British Standards under the authority of the Charter, which lays down as one of the BSI's objectives to:
A building society is a financial institution owned by its members as a mutual organization. Building societies offer banking and related financial services, especially savings and mortgage lending.
thumb|right|Burwash dining hall viewed from Charles St.
Benzofury}}
The bell curve is typical of the normal distribution.
}}
The Behistun Inscription (also Bisotun, Bistun or Bisutun; , Old Persian: Bagastana, meaning &quot;the place of god&quot;) is a multilingual inscription and large rock relief on a cliff at Mount Behistun in the Kermanshah Province of Iran, near the city of Kermanshah in western Iran. It was crucial to the decipherment of cuneiform script.
Banda may refer to:
Bladder often refers to the urinary bladder, which collects urine for excretion in animals.
Robert Young is a serial entrepreneur who is best known for founding Red Hat Inc., the open source software company.
Beos}}
A biome  is a community of plants and animals that have common characteristics for the environment they exist in. They can be found over a range of continents.
Behavior (American English) or behaviour (Commonwealth English) is the range of actions and mannerisms made by individuals, organisms, systems, or artificial entities in conjunction with themselves or their environment, which includes the other systems or organisms around as well as the (inanimate) physical environment. It is the response of the system or organism to various stimuli or inputs, whether internal or external, conscious or subconscious, overt or covert, and voluntary or involuntary.
The balance of trade, commercial balance, or net exports (sometimes symbolized as NX), is the difference between the monetary value of a nation's exports and imports over a certain period. Sometimes a distinction is made between a balance of trade for goods versus one for services.
The biosphere (from Greek βίος bíos &quot;life&quot; and σφαῖρα sphaira &quot;sphere&quot;) also known as the ecosphere (from Greek οἶκος oîkos &quot;environment&quot; and σφαῖρα), is the worldwide sum of all ecosystems. The two joined words are &quot;bio&quot; and &quot;sphere&quot;.
A biological membrane or biomembrane is an enclosing or separating membrane that acts as a selectively permeable barrier within living things. Biological membranes, in the form of eukaryotic cell membranes, consist of a phospholipid bilayer with embedded, integral and peripheral proteins used in communication and transportation of chemicals and ions.
thumb|right|300px|King [[George V of the United Kingdom|George V (front, centre) with his prime ministers at the 1926 Imperial Conference.Standing (left to right): Monroe (Newfoundland), Coates (New Zealand), Bruce (Australia), Hertzog (Union of South Africa), Cosgrave (Irish Free State).
The Balfour Declaration was a British government public statement made during World War I, to announce their  support for the establishment of a &quot;national home&quot; for the Jewish people in Palestine, then part of the Ottoman Empire. The declaration was contained in a letter dated 2November 1917 from the United Kingdom's Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour to Lord Walter Rothschild, a leader of the British Jewish community, for transmission to the Zionist Federation of Great Britain and Ireland.
Unification or Death (), popularly known as the Black Hand (Црна рука/Crna ruka), was a secret military society formed on 9 May 1911 by officers in the Army of the Kingdom of Serbia, originating in the conspiracy group that assassinated the Serbian royal couple (1903), led by captain Dragutin Dimitrijević &quot;Apis&quot;.
A board of directors is a recognized group of people who jointly oversee the activities of an organization, which can be either a for-profit business, nonprofit organization, or a government agency. A board of directors' powers, duties and responsibilities are determined by government regulations (including the jurisdiction's corporations law) and the organization's own constitution and bylaws.
)
Buffalo (or buffaloe) primarily refers to:
Jean-Louis Gassée Unveils the BeBox, RELEASED OCTOBER 3, 1995, Press release for BeBox Dual603-66BeBox Dual603e-133 :  Be Announces the BeBox Dual603-133, RELEASED AUGUST 5, 1996, Press release.
Biomedical engineering (BME) is the application of engineering principles and design concepts to medicine and biology for healthcare purposes (e.g.
The Balkan Peninsula by the Danube–Sava–Soča border. Political communities that are usually included in the Balkans.
thumb|310px|The Bohr model of the [[hydrogen atom ( 1}}) or a hydrogen-like ion (), where the negatively- charged electron confined to an atomic shell encircles a small, positively charged atomic nucleus and where an electron jumps between orbits it is accompanied by an emitted or absorbed amount of electromagnetic energy (hν). The orbits in which the electron may travel are shown as grey circles; their radius increases as n2, where n is the principal quantum number.
Bombay Sapphire is a brand of gin that was first launched in 1987 by IDV. In 1997 Diageo sold the brand to Bacardi.
BadTrans is a malicious Microsoft Windows computer worm distributed by e-mail. Because of a known vulnerability in older versions of Internet Explorer, some e-mail programs, such as Microsoft's Outlook Express and Microsoft Outlook programs, may install and execute the worm as soon as the e-mail message is viewed.
}}
The Bliss bibliographic classification (BC) is a library classification system that was created by Henry E. Bliss (1870–1955) and published in four volumes between 1940 and 1953.
, , ,
A barrister (also known as barrister-at-law or bar-at-law) is a type of lawyer in common law jurisdictions. Barristers mostly specialise in courtroom advocacy and litigation.
(in St. Louis, Missouri, United States.
A borough is an administrative division in various English-speaking countries. In principle, the term borough designates a self-governing walled town, although in practice, official use of the term varies widely.
Bodmin Moor ()Place-names in the Standard Written Form (SWF) : List of place-names agreed by the MAGA Signage Panel . Cornish Language Partnership.
}}
Isaac Newton's rotating bucket argument (also known as Newton's bucket) was designed to demonstrate that true rotational motion cannot be defined as the relative rotation of the body with respect to the immediately surrounding bodies.  It is one of five arguments from the &quot;properties, causes, and effects&quot; of true motion and rest that support his contention that, in general, true motion and rest cannot be defined as special instances of motion or rest relative to other bodies, but instead can be defined only by reference to absolute space.
The Roman Breviary (Latin: Breviarium Romanum) is the liturgical book of the Latin liturgical rites of the Catholic Church containing the public or canonical prayers, hymns, the Psalms, readings, and notations for everyday use, especially by bishops, priests, and deacons in the Divine Office (i.e.
Boomer may refer to:
Bill may refer to:
bin Laden () is an Arabic language surname synonymous with Osama bin Laden (1957–2011); it may also pertain to the Saudi Binladin Group, a holding company for the assets of the bin Laden family, and other notable members of Osama's family.
Montepulciano, Italy
In literary criticism, a Bildungsroman (; English: novel of formation, education, culture; coming-of-age story)}} is a literary genre that focuses on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from youth to adulthood (coming of age), in which character change is extremely important.
A bachelor is a man who is socially regarded as able to marry, but has not yet.Bachelors are, in Pitt &amp; al.
Background radiation is the ionizing radiation present in the environment. Background radiation originates from a variety of sources, both natural and artificial.
Balmoral may refer to:
Bannock may mean:
Lord Banquo , the Thane of Lochaber, is a character in William Shakespeare's 1606 play Macbeth. In the play, he is at first an ally to Macbeth (both are generals in the King's army) and they are together when they meet the Three Witches.
Bruin, Dutch for &quot;brown&quot;, is used in English as a folk term for brown bears. Bruin, Bruins or BRUIN may refer to:
Bayesian probability is an interpretation of the concept of probability, in which, instead of frequency or propensity of some phenomenon, probability is interpreted as reasonable expectation representing a state of knowledgeJaynes, E.T.
) in Bamberg
Black Cow can refer to either:
Bloody Mary may refer to:
The House of Bonaparte is an imperial and royal European dynasty founded in 1804 by Napoleon I, a French military leader who had risen to notability out of the French Revolution and who in 1804 transformed the First French Republic into the First French Empire, five years after his coup d'état of November 1799. Napoleon turned the Grande Armée against every major European power and dominated continental Europe through a series of military victories during the Napoleonic Wars.
The β-sheet (also β-pleated sheet) is a common motif of regular secondary structure in proteins. Beta sheets consist of beta strands (also β-strand) connected laterally by at least two or three backbone hydrogen bonds, forming a generally twisted, pleated sheet.
Schumann, Walter, 2013, Gemstones of the World, 5th ed.,
The Black Russian is a cocktail of vodka and coffee liqueur, also known as a &quot;Black Ewan&quot;. It contains five parts vodka to two parts coffee liqueur, per IBA specified ingredients.
BRP can mean:
Bunnies &amp; Burrows (B&amp;B) is a role-playing game (RPG) inspired by the novel Watership Down.GURPS Bunnies &amp; Burrows (1992), Steve Jackson Games,  Published by Fantasy Games Unlimited in 1976, the game centered on intelligent rabbits.
Bundaberg Rum is a dark rum produced in Bundaberg, Australia. It is often referred to as &quot;Bundy&quot;.
The Black and Tans (),tearma.ie – Dictionary of Irish Terms officially the Royal Irish Constabulary Special Reserve,&quot;The burning of Cork, December 1920: the fire service response&quot;.
A Bunsen burner, named after Robert Bunsen, is a common piece of laboratory equipment that produces a single open gas flame, which is used for heating, sterilization, and combustion.
The Bolsheviks, originally also Bolshevists.}} or Bolsheviki  (; derived from большинство bol'shinstvo, &quot;majority&quot;, literally meaning &quot;one of the majority&quot;) were a faction of the Marxist Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (RSDLP) which split apart from the Menshevik faction at the Second Party Congress in 1903.
The Battle of Świecino (named for the village of Świecino, near Żarnowiec Lake, northern Poland) also called the Battle of Żarnowiec or in German Battle of Schwetz, took place on September 17, 1462 during the Thirteen Years' War. The Poles commanded by Piotr Dunin, consisting of some 2000 mercenares and Poles, decisively defeated the 2700 man army of the Teutonic Knights commanded by Fritz Raweneck and Kaspar Nostyc.
Barney Bubbles (born Colin Fulcher; 30 July 1942 – 14 November 1983) was an English graphic artist whose work encompassed graphic design and music video direction. Bubbles, who also sketched and painted privately, is best known for his distinctive contribution to the design practices associated with the British independent music scene of the 1970s and 1980s.
Blackridge is a community in eastern Allegheny County and is a suburb of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. This community consists of about 650 private homes built in 1920-1949, Blackridge Estates was and remains one of the area's largest residential communities.
Simple English}}
BND may refer to:
A brass instrument is a musical instrument that produces sound by sympathetic vibration of air in a tubular resonator in sympathy with the vibration of the player's lips. Brass instruments are also called labrosones, literally meaning &quot;lip-vibrated instruments&quot;.
Blood libel (also blood accusation) is an accusationTurvey, Brent E. Criminal Profiling: An Introduction to Behavioral Evidence Analysis, Academic Press, 2008, p.
Bagpuss is a British children's television series, made by Peter Firmin and Oliver Postgate. The series of 13 episodes was first broadcast from 12 February 1974 to 7 May 1974 through their company Smallfilms.
Naïve set theory is one of several theories of sets used in the discussion of the foundations of mathematics.
Murmur (also called breathy voice, whispery voice, soughing and susurration) is a phonation in which the vocal folds vibrate, as they do in normal (modal) voicing, but are adjusted to let more air escape which produces a sighing-like sound. A simple murmured phonation,  (not actually a fricative consonant, as a literal reading of the IPA chart would suggest), can sometimes be heard as an allophone of English  between vowels, such as in the word behind, for some speakers.
Bézout's identity (also called Bézout's lemma) is a theorem in elementary number theory: let a and b be nonzero integers and let d be their greatest common divisor. Then there exist integers x and y such that
United States Navy
Born Again}}
The Rockwell B-1 LancerThe name &quot;Lancer&quot; is only applied to the B-1B version, after the program was revived. is a supersonic variable-sweep wing, heavy bomber used by the United States Air Force (USAF).
The Book of Common Prayer (BCP) is the short title of a number of related prayer books used in the Anglican Communion, as well as by the Continuing Anglican, &quot;Anglican realignment&quot; and other Anglican churches. The original book, published in 1549 , in the reign of Edward VI, was a product of the English Reformation following the break with Rome.
}}
BMI may refer to:
BSA may refer to:
Bovril is the trademarked name of a thick and salty meat extract paste similar to a yeast extract, developed in the 1870s by John Lawson Johnston.  It is sold in a distinctive, bulbous jar.
In mathematics, the Bernoulli numbers  are a sequence of rational numbers which occur frequently in number theory. The values of the first 20 Bernoulli numbers are given in the table to the right.
In the partnership card game contract bridge, the Blackwood convention is a popular bidding convention that was developed by Easley Blackwood. It is used to explore the partnership's possession of aces, kings and in some variants, the queen of trumps, to judge more precisely whether slam is likely to be a good contract.
Bronze Award|Bronze medal|Bronze Medallion (disambiguation)Bronze Medallion}}
Herennius Etruscus
There were two battles of El Alamein in World War II, both fought in 1942. The Battles occurred in North Africa, in Egypt, in and around an area named after a railway stop called El Alamein.
The Brezhnev Doctrine was a Soviet foreign policy, first and most clearly outlined by Sergei Kovalev in a September 26, 1968 Pravda article entitled Sovereignty and the International Obligations of Socialist Countries. Leonid Brezhnev reiterated it in a speech at the Fifth Congress of the Polish United Workers' Party on November 13, 1968, which stated:
A bain-marie (; also known as a water bath or double boiler), a type of heated bath, is a piece of equipment used in science, industry, and cooking to heat materials gently and gradually to fixed temperatures, or to keep materials warm over a period of time. A bain-marie is also used to melt ingredients for cooking.
Belgian or Belgia refer to something or someone of, or related to, Belgium.
Ballu tundu or ballu bardu is a traditional Sardinian folk dance which is typically danced in a closed or open circle. The dance was described as early as 1805 by Mameli and by La Marmora in 1825.
Barbagia ( or ) is a mountain area of inner Sardinia. It is a natural region mostly contained in the province of Nuoro and located alongside the Gennargentu massif.
Jack Brabham Dan Gurney Denny Hulme&lt;BR&gt; Jochen Rindt Jacky Ickx Silvio Moser  Graham Hill Carlos Reutemann Niki Lauda Nelson Piquet Riccardo Patrese Elio de Angelis Derek Warwick Stefano Modena Martin Brundle David Brabham Damon Hill Héctor Rebaque John Watson Carlos Pace
The Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress is a four-engine heavy bomber developed in the 1930s for the United States Army Air Corps (USAAC). Competing against Douglas and Martin for a contract to build 200 bombers, the Boeing entry outperformed both competitors and exceeded the air corps' performance specifications.
Trieste is a Swiss-designed, Italian-built deep-diving research bathyscaphe, which with its crew of two reached a record maximum depth of about , in the deepest known part of the Earth's oceans, the Challenger Deep, in the Mariana Trench near Guam in the Pacific. On 23 January 1960, Jacques Piccard (son of the boat's designer Auguste Piccard) and US Navy Lieutenant Don Walsh achieved the goal of Project Nekton.
Balance, balanced or balancing may refer to:
Adwa, Ethiopia
thumb|350px|A graph of the potential energy of a bistable system; it has two local minima. A surface shaped like this with two &quot;low points&quot; can act as a bistable system; a ball resting on the surface can only be stable at those two positions.
Maroon,  blue, and  gold
974
influenced
The Berry paradox is a self-referential paradox arising from an expression like &quot;the smallest positive integer not definable in fewer than twelve words&quot; (note that this defining phrase has eleven words). Bertrand Russell, the first to discuss the paradox in print, attributed it to G.
This is the complete list of Olympic medalists in biathlon.
Inedia (Latin for &quot;fasting&quot;) or breatharianism  is the belief that it is possible for a person to live without consuming food. Breatharians claim that food, and in some cases water, are not necessary for survival, and that humans can be sustained solely by prana, the vital life force in Hinduism.
Bihar is a state in India.
Brigham Young (; June 1, 1801August 29, 1877) was an American leader in the Latter Day Saint movement, Politician, and a settler of the Western United States. He was the second President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) from 1847 until his death in 1877.
A Burns supper is a celebration of the life and poetry of the poet Robert Burns, the author of many Scots poems. The suppers are normally held on or near the poet's birthday, 25 January, occasionally  known as Robert Burns Day (or Robbie Burns Day or Rabbie Burns Day) but more commonly known as Burns Night ().
Big Audio Dynamite (later known as Big Audio Dynamite II and Big Audio, and often abbreviated BAD) is a British musical group formed in 1984 by the ex-guitarist and singer of The Clash, Mick Jones. The group is noted for its effective mixture of varied musical styles, incorporating elements of punk rock, dance music, hip hop, reggae, and funk.
Chess is a two-player strategy board game played on a chessboard, a checkered gameboard with 64 squares arranged in an 8×8 grid. The game is played by millions of people worldwide.
thumb|400px|Map showing the countries of the world.
Combinatorics is a branch of mathematics concerning the study of finite or countable discrete structures. Aspects of combinatorics include counting the structures of a given kind and size (enumerative combinatorics), deciding when certain criteria can be met, and constructing and analyzing object
Calculus (from Latin calculus, literally &quot;small pebble used for counting on an abacus&quot;) is the mathematical study of continuous change, in the same way that geometry is the study of shape and algebra is the study of generalizations of arithmetic operations. It has two major branches, differential calculus (concerning rates of change and slopes of curves), and integral calculus (concerning accumulation of quantities and the areas under and between curves); these two branches are related to each other by the fundamental theorem of calculus.
Communication (from Latin commūnicāre, meaning &quot;to share&quot;) is the act of conveying intended meanings from one entity or group to another through the use of mutually understood signs and semiotic rules.
Classics or Classical Studies is the study of classical antiquity. It encompasses the study of the Graeco-Roman world, particularly of its languages, and literature (Ancient Greek and Classical Latin) but also it encompasses the study of Greco-Roman philosophy, history, and archaeology.
Chemistry is a branch of physical science that studies the composition, structure, properties and change of matter.Chemistry.
In cell biology, the cytoplasm is the material  within a living cell, excluding the cell nucleus. It comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) and the organelles – the cell's internal sub-structures.
In Christianity, the Christ. From , via ; calqued from  or , from  or .
Capitol}}
}}
and 1951–2011
The politics of Canada function within a framework of parliamentary democracy and a federal system of parliamentary government with strong democratic traditions. Canada is a constitutional monarchy, in which the Monarch is head of state.
Present-day Telecommunications in Canada include telephone, radio, television, and internet usage. In the past, telecommunications included telegraphy available through Canadian Pacific and Canadian National.
Transportation in Canada, the world's second-largest country in total area, is dedicated to having an efficient, high-capacity multimodal transport spanning often vast distances between natural resource extraction sites, agricultural and urban areas. Canada's transportation system includes more than  of roads, 10 major international airports, 300 smaller airports,  of functioning railway track, and more than 300 commercial ports and harbours that provide access to the Pacific, Atlantic and Arctic oceans as well as the Great Lakes and the St.
Relations between Canada and the United States of America historically have been extensive, given a shared border and ever-increasing close cultural, economical ties and similarities. The shared historical and cultural heritage has resulted in one of the most stable and mutually beneficial international relationships in the world.
ChristianityFrom Ancient Greek Χριστός, Khristós (Latinized as Christus), translating Hebrew מָשִׁיחַ, Māšîăḥ, meaning &quot;the anointed one&quot;, with the Latin suffixes -ian and -itas. is an Abrahamic monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ, who serves as the focal point of the Christian faith.
the magazine|Computing (journal)the scientific journal}}
A casino is a facility which houses and accommodates certain types of gambling activities. The industry that deals in casinos is called the gaming industry.
A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions. The computer industry has used the term &quot;central processing unit&quot; at least since the early 1960s.
Middle Eocene-Holocene
In communications and information processing, code is a system of rules to convert information—such as a letter, word, sound, image, or gesture—into another form or representation, sometimes shortened or secret, for communication through a channel or storage in a medium. An early example is the invention of language which enabled a person, through speech, to communicate what he or she saw, heard, felt, or thought to others.
}} Latest Silurian to Present
Carl Linnaeus was born in 1707 on 13 May (Swedish Style) or 23 May according to the modern calendar. According to the Julian calendar he was born 12 May.
A coastline or a seashore is the area where land meets the sea or ocean, or  a line that forms the boundary between the land and the ocean or a lake.   A precise line that can be called a coastline cannot be determined due to the Coastline paradox.
Catatonia is a state of psychogenic motor immobility and behavioral abnormality manifested by stupor. It was first described in 1874 by Karl Ludwig Kahlbaum, in Die Katatonie oder das Spannungsirresein (Catatonia or Tension Insanity).
In cryptography, a cipher (or cypher) is an algorithm for performing encryption or decryption—a series of well-defined steps that can be followed as a procedure. An alternative, less common term is encipherment.
right|thumb|550px|1953 World Map of alignments.
Crony capitalism is an economy in which businesses thrive not as a result of risk taken for them, but rather, as a return on money amassed through a nexus between a business class and the political class. This is done using state power to crush genuine competition in handing out permits, government grants, special tax breaks, or other forms of state intervention over resources where the state exercises monopolist control over public goods, for example, mining concessions for primary commodities or contracts for public works.
This is a lists of universities and colleges.
A constitution is a set of fundamental principles or established precedents according to which a state or other organization is governed.The New Oxford American Dictionary, Second Edn.
Common law (also known as judicial precedent or judge-made law or case law) is the body of law developed by judges, courts, and similar tribunals.Washington Probate, &quot;Estate Planning &amp; Probate Glossary&quot;, Washington (State) Probate, s.
Civil law may refer to:
A court of appeals is an appellate court generally.
Common descent describes how, in evolutionary biology, a group of organisms share a most recent common ancestor. There is evidence of common descent that all life on Earth is descended from the last universal common ancestor (LUCA).
Celtic music is a broad grouping of music genres that evolved out of the folk music traditions of the Celtic people of Western Europe. It refers to both orally-transmitted traditional music and recorded music and the styles vary considerably to include everything from &quot;trad&quot; (traditional) music to a wide range of hybrids.
Character(s) may refer to:
A car is a wheeled motor vehicle used for transporting passengers.
In computing, a printer is a peripheral which makes a persistent human-readable representation of graphics or text on paper or similar physical media.
Copyright is a legal right created by the law of a country that grants the creator of an original work exclusive rights for its use and distribution. This is usually only for a limited time.
(Eastern) ⁓ (Western)
The dates of the Classical period in Western music are generally accepted as being between about the year 1730 and the year 1820. However, the term classical music is often used in a colloquial sense as a synonym for Western art music which describes a variety of Western musical styles from the Middle Ages to the present, and especially from the seventeenth century to the nineteenth.
In computing, a character encoding is used to represent a repertoire of characters by some kind of encoding system.Definition from The Tech Terms Dictionary  Depending on the abstraction level and context, corresponding code points and the resulting code space may be regarded as bit patterns, octets, natural numbers, electrical pulses, etc.
In computing and telecommunication, a control character or non-printing character is a code point (a number) in a character set, that does not represent a written symbol. They are used as in-band signaling to cause effects other than the addition of a symbol to the text.
Carbon (from  &quot;coal&quot;) is a chemical element with symbol C and atomic number 6. It is nonmetallic and tetravalent—making four electrons available to form covalent chemical bonds.
Computer data storage, often called storage or memory, is a technology consisting of computer components and recording media used to retain digital data. It is a core function and fundamental component of computers.
Conditional may refer to:
A cone is a basic geometrical shape.
In a chemical reaction, chemical equilibrium is the state in which both reactants and products are present in concentrations which have no further tendency to change with time. Usually, this state results when the forward reaction proceeds at the same rate as the reverse reaction.
In mathematics, a combination is selection of items from a collection, such that (unlike permutations) the order of selection does not matter. For example, given three fruits, say an apple, an orange and a pear, there are three combinations of two that can be drawn from this set: an apple and a pear; an apple and an orange; or a pear and an orange.
Computer software, or simply software, is a part of a computer system that consists of data or computer instructions, in contrast to the physical hardware from which the system is built. In computer science and software engineering, computer software is all information processed by computer systems, programs and data.
Computer programming (often shortened to programming) is a process that leads from an original formulation of a computing problem to executable computer programs. Programming involves activities such as analysis, developing understanding, generating algorithms, verification of requirements of algorithms including their correctness and resources consumption, and implementation (commonly referred to as coding) of algorithms in a target programming language.
The Consolation of Philosophy () is a philosophical work by Boethius, written around the year 524. It has been described as the single most important and influential work in the West on Medieval and early Renaissance Christianity, and is also the last great Western work of the Classical Period.
812–814 with the inscription  (Karolus Imperator Augustus)
HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) has been in use since 1991, but HTML 4.0 (December 1997) was the first standardized version where international characters were given reasonably complete treatment.
right|frame|Rotating single-walled zigzag carbon nanotube
**}}
Computer science deals with the theoretical foundations of information and computation, together with practical techniques for the implementation and application of these foundations.
Catalan may refer to:
Creationism is the religious belief that the universe and life originated &quot;from specific acts of divine creation,&quot;Gunn 2004, p. 9, &quot;The Concise Oxford Dictionary says that creationism is 'the belief that the universe and living organisms originated from specific acts of divine creation.
Chad (; ), officially the Republic of Chad, is a landlocked country in Central Africa. It borders Libya to the north, Sudan to the east, the Central African Republic to the south, Cameroon and Nigeria to the southwest, and Niger to the west.
Chad is one of the 48 land-locked countries in the world and is located in North Central Africa, measuring , nearly twice the size of France and slightly more than three times the size of California. Most of its ethnically and linguistically diverse population lives in the south, with densities ranging from 54 persons per square kilometer in the Logone River basin to 0.
thumb|right|Demographics of Chad, Data of [[Food and Agriculture Organization|FAO, year 2005 ; Number of inhabitants in thousands.]]
Politics of Chad takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Chad is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Chad include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport infrastructure within Chad is generally poor, especially in the north and east of the country.  River transport is limited to the south-west corner.
The foreign relations of Chad are significantly influenced by the desire for oil revenue and investment in Chadian oil industry and support for Chadian President Idriss Déby. Chad is officially non-aligned but has close relations with France, the former colonial power.
Commentary or commentaries may refer to:
In chemistry, a colloid is a mixture in which one substance of microscopically dispersed insoluble particles is suspended throughout another substance. Sometimes the dispersed substance alone is called the colloid; the term colloidal suspension refers unambiguously to the overall mixture (although a narrower sense of the word suspension is distinguished from colloids by larger particle size).
Chinese can refer to:
Riding shotgun was used to describe the guard who rode alongside a stagecoach driver, ready to use his shotgun to ward off bandits or Native Americans. In modern use, it refers to the practice of sitting alongside the driver in a moving vehicle.
Cooking or cookery is the art, technology and craft of preparing food for consumption with or without the use of heat. Cooking techniques and ingredients vary widely across the world, from grilling food over an open fire to using electric stoves, to baking in various types of ovens, reflecting unique environmental, economic, and cultural traditions and trends.
A card game is any game using playing cards as the primary device with which the game is played, be they traditional or game-specific. Countless card games exist, including families of related games (such as poker).
thumb|226x226px|Cross-stitch [[Sampler (needlework)|sampler, Germany]]
Games available in most casinos are commonly called casino games. In a casino game, the players gamble casino chips on various possible random outcomes or combinations of outcomes.
A video game is an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device such as a TV screen or computer monitor. The word video in video game traditionally referred to a raster display device, but as of the 2000s, it implies any type of display device that can produce two- or three-dimensional images.
}}
In ontology, the different kinds or ways of being are called categories of being or simply categories. To investigate the categories of being is to determine the most fundamental and the broadest classes of entities.
Concrete is a composite material composed of coarse aggregate bonded together with a fluid cement that hardens over time. Most concretes used are lime-based concretes such as Portland cement concrete or concretes made with other hydraulic cements, such as ciment fondu.
Table 26–1 = Table 3–2 Percentage of women experiencing an unintended pregnancy during the first year of typical use and the first year of perfect use of contraception, and the percentage continuing use at the end of the first year. United States.
or
Country codes are short alphabetic or numeric geographical codes (geocodes) developed to represent countries and dependent areas, for use in data processing and communications. Several different systems have been developed to do this.
Cladistics (from Greek , klados, i.e.
A calendar is a system of organising days for social, religious, commercial or administrative purposes. This is done by giving names to periods of time, typically days, weeks, months and years.
Physical cosmology is the study of the largest-scale structures and dynamics of the Universe and is concerned with fundamental questions about its origin, structure, evolution, and ultimate fate.For an overview, see   Cosmology as a science originated with the Copernican principle, which implies that celestial bodies obey identical physical laws to those on Earth, and Newtonian mechanics, which first allowed us to understand those physical laws.
In physical cosmology, cosmic inflation, cosmological inflation, or just inflation, is a theory of exponential expansion of space in the early universe. The inflationary epoch lasted from 10−36 seconds after the conjectured Big Bang singularity to sometime between 10−33 and 10−32 seconds after the singularity.
(dotted). The horizontal axis is wavelength in nm.
Condensed matter physics is a branch of physics that deals with the physical properties of condensed phases of matter, where particles adhere to each other. Condensed matter physicists seek to understand the behavior of these phases by using physical laws.
Cultural anthropology is a branch of anthropology focused on the study of cultural variation among humans. It is in contrast to social anthropology, which perceives cultural variation as a subset of the anthropological constant.
Conversion of units is the conversion between different units of measurement for the same quantity, typically through multiplicative conversion factors.
A city is a large and permanent human settlement.Goodall, B.
Chervil (; Anthriscus cerefolium), sometimes called garden chervil to distinguish it from similar plants also called chervil, or French parsley, is a delicate annual herb related to parsley. It is commonly used to season mild-flavoured dishes and is a constituent of the French herb mixture fines herbes.
}}
}}
Attributed to Immanuel Kant, the critical philosophy () movement sees the primary task of philosophy as criticism rather than justification of knowledge; criticism, for Kant, meant judging as to the possibilities of knowledge before advancing to knowledge itself (from the Greek kritike (techne), or &quot;art of judgment&quot;). The basic task of philosophers, according to this view, is not to establish and demonstrate theories about reality, but rather to subject all theories—including those about philosophy itself—to critical review, and measure their validity by how well they withstand criticism.
}} |}}
Late Cretaceous - Recent
Cyperales is a name for an order of flowering plants.  As used in the Engler system (update, of 1964) and in the Wettstein system it consisted of only the single family.
Early Cretaceous – Recent
thumb|right|Contra dancers in [[Peterborough, New Hampshire|Peterborough, New Hampshire]]
Coin collecting is the collecting of coins or other forms of minted legal tender.
Crokinole ( ) is a dexterity board game similar in various ways to pitchnut, carrom, marbles, and shove ha'penny, with elements of shuffleboard and curling reduced to table-top size. Players take turns shooting discs across the circular playing surface, trying to have their discs land in the higher-scoring regions of the board, while also attempting to knock away opposing discs.
Capitalism is an economic system  and an ideology based on private ownership of the means of production and their operation for profit.Chris Jenks.
Cross ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. Heavy cross ownership is referred to as circular ownership.
Cardiology (from Greek  kardiā, &quot;heart&quot; and  [&quot;study&quot;) is a branch of medicine] dealing with disorders of the [[heart as well as parts of the circulatory system. The field includes medical diagnosis and treatment of congenital heart defects, coronary artery disease, heart failure, valvular heart disease and electrophysiology.
The history of Cambodia, a country in mainland Southeast Asia, can be traced back to at least the 5th millennium BC. Detailed records of a political structure on the territory of what is now Cambodia first appear in Chinese annals in reference to Funan, a polity that encompassed the southernmost part of the Indochinese peninsula during the 1st to 6th centuries.
15,205,539
The politics of Cambodia takes place in a frame work of a constitutional monarchy, where by the Prime Minister is the head of government and a Monarch is head of state. The kingdom formally operates according to the nation's constitution (enacted in 1993) in a framework of a parliamentary, representative democracy.
Telecommunications in Cambodia include telephone, radio, television, and Internet services, which are regulated by the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. Transport and posts were restored throughout most of the country in the early 1980s during the People's Republic of Kampuchea regime after being disrupted under the Khmer Rouge.
War and continuing fighting severely damaged Cambodia's transportation system — a system that had been inadequately developed in peacetime. The country's weak infrastructure hindered emergency relief efforts and created tremendous problems of procurement of supplies in general and of distribution.
The Royal Cambodian Government (RGC) has established diplomatic relations with most countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, and France, as well as all of its Asian neighbors, to include the People's Republic of China, India, Vietnam, Laos, South Korea, and Thailand. The RGC is a member of most major international organizations, including the United Nations and its specialized agencies such as the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
In Kmer architecture, the period of Angkor is the period in the history of the Khmer Empire from approximately the later half of the 8th century AD to the first half of the 15th century CE.
Capricorn (pl. capricorni or capricorns) may refer to:
, genitive
(French)
thumb|German-built building at [[Ambam, today used as a school]]
thumb|300px|right|Map of Cameroon
thumb|260px|A Tikar family in the Northwest Province
The politics of Cameroon takes place in a framework of a unitary presidential republic, whereby the President of Cameroon is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
)$28.82 Billion (Nominal) ()Rank: 96th ()https://www.
Telecommunications in Cameroon include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article provides a breakdown of the transportation options available in Cameroon. The options available to citizens and tourists include railways, roadways, waterways, pipelines, and airlines.
Cameroon's noncontentious, low-profile approach to foreign relations puts it squarely in the middle of other African and developing country states on major issues. It supports the principles of non-interference in the affairs of third world countries and increased assistance to underdeveloped countries.
thumb|The location of Cape Verde.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Cape Verde, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Cape Verde takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Cape Verde is the head of government and the President of the Republic of Cape Verde is the head of state, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government.
Most transportation in Cape Verde is done by plane. There are regular flights to and from the major islands (Santiago, Sal and São Vicente), with less frequent flights to the other islands.
Cape Verde follows a policy of nonalignment and seeks cooperative relations with all friendly states. Angola, Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, France, Germany, Portugal, Senegal, Russia, South Korea and the United States maintain embassies in Praia.
The Cayman Islands are a British overseas territory located in the Caribbean that have been under various governments since their discovery by Europeans.  Christopher Columbus sighted the Cayman Islands on May 10, 1503 and named them Las Tortugas after the numerous sea turtles seen swimming in the surrounding waters.
The Cayman Islands are a British dependency and island country. It is a three-island archipelago in the Caribbean Sea, consisting of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac, and Little Cayman.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Cayman Islands, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Cayman Islands takes place within a framework of parliamentary democracy, within the confines of the Government of the Cayman Islands.
Communications in the Cayman Islands
Railways:
The foreign relations of the Cayman Islands are largely managed from the United Kingdom, as the islands remains one of 14 overseas territories under British jurisdiction and sovereignty. However, the Government of the Cayman Islands have autonomy and often resolves important issues with foreign governments alone, without intervention from Britain.
The  history of the Central African Republic is roughly composed of four distinct periods. The earliest period of settlement began around 10,000 years ago when nomadic people first began to settle, farm and fish in the region.
The Central African Republic is a landlocked nation within the interior of the African continent. It is bordered by the countries of Cameroon, Chad, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the Republic of the Congo.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Central African Republic, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Central African Republic formally take place in a framework of a semi-presidential republic. In this system, the President is the head of state, with a  Prime Minister as head of government.
)$1.688 Billion (Nominal) ()
Telecommunications in the Central African Republic includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet as well as the postal system.
Modes of transport in the Central African Republic include road, water, and air. Most but not all of the country is connected to the road network, much of which is unpaved, and which centres on the routes nationales identified as RN1 to RN11.
The Central African Armed Forces () are the armed forces of the Central African Republic, established after independence in 1960. Today they are a rather weak institution, dependent on international support to hold back the enemies in the current civil war.
President François Bozizé has said that one of his priorities is to get the support of the international community.– François Bozizé se confie au Messager, June 21, 2007  This has indeed been visible in his relations to donor countries and international organisations.
(French) (Arabic)}}
The territory of Chile has been populated since at least 3000 BC. By the 16th century, Spanish conquistadors began to subdue and colonize the region of present-day Chile, and the territory became a colony between 1540 and 1820, when it gained independence from Spain.
Chile's government is a representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Chile is both head of state and head of government, and of a formal multi-party system that in practice behaves like a two-party one, due to binomialism. Executive power is exercised by the government.
1,6% (2017)
The technical regulator of communications in Chile is the Ministry of Transportation and Telecommunications, through the Undersecretariat of Telecommunications (Subtel).
Transport in Chile is mostly by road. The south of the country is not connected to central Chile by road, except through Argentina, and water transport also plays a part there.
billion (2011 est)
Since its return to democracy in 1990, Chile has been an active participant in the regional and international arena.Schenoni, Luis (2017) &quot;Subsystemic Unipolarities?
,
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
A conspiracy theory is an explanation of an event or situation that invokes a conspiracy without warrant, generally one involving an illegal or harmful act carried out by government or other powerful actors. Conspiracy theories often produce hypotheses that contradict the prevailing understanding of history or simple facts.
}}
The first natives in Costa Rica were hunters and gatherers, and Costa Rica served as an &quot;Intermediate Region&quot; between Mesoamerican and Andean native cultures.
thumb|right|Political map of Costa Rica.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Costa Rica, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Costa Rica take place in a framework of a presidential, representative democratic republic, with a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the president and his cabinet, and the President of Costa Rica is both the head of state and head of government.
There are many modes of transport in Costa Rica but the country's infrastructure has suffered from a lack of maintenance and new investment. There is an extensive road system of more than 30,000 kilometers, although much of it is in disrepair; this also applies to ports, railways and water delivery systems.
Costa Rica does not officially have a military. However, it does have small paramilitary forces which perform policing and border patrol functions.
Costa Rica is an active member of the international community and, in 1983, claimed it was for neutrality.http://www.
Computational linguistics is an interdisciplinary field concerned with the statistical or rule-based modeling of natural language from a computational perspective, as well as the study of appropriate computational approaches to linguistic questions.
Liberia: Ghana: Guinea: Burkina Faso: Mali: 
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Ivory Coast, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The Politics of Ivory Coast takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Ivory Coast is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government.
Ivory Coast  invested remarkably in its transport system. Transport Infrastructures are much more developed than they are other West African countries despite a crisis that restrained their maintenance and development.
The Republican Forces of Côte d'Ivoire (; &quot;FRCI&quot;) is the current name of the armed forces of Ivory Coast.
Croatia first appeared as a duchy in the late 7th century and then as a kingdom in the 10th century. From the 12th century it remained a distinct state with its ruler (ban) and parliament, but it obeyed the kings and emperors of various neighboring powers, primarily Hungary and Austria.
4 290 612 (31 March 2011)
The politics of Croatia are defined by a parliamentary, representative democratic republic framework, where the Prime Minister of Croatia is the head of government in a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the Government and the President of Croatia.
2.8% (real, Q2 2017)
Transport in Croatia relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, water and air. Road transport incorporates a comprehensive network of state, county and local routes augmented by a network of highways for long-distance travelling.
The Republic of Croatia is a sovereign country at the crossroads of Central Europe, Southeast Europe, and the Mediterranean that declared its independence from SFR Yugoslavia on June 25, 1991. Croatia is a member of the European Union (EU), United Nations (UN), the Council of Europe, NATO, the World Trade Organization (WTO), Union for the Mediterranean and a number of many other international organizations.
The island of Cuba was inhabited by various Mesoamerican cultures prior to the arrival of the Italian explorer Christopher Columbus in 1492. After Columbus' arrival, Cuba became a Spanish colony, ruled by a Spanish governor in Havana.
$128,5 billion (2014 est.)https://www.
Transportation in Cuba is composed of a system of railways, roads, airports, waterways, ports and harbours:
Cuba's foreign policy has been fluid through history depending on world events and other variables, including relations with the United States. Without massive Soviet subsidies and its primary trading partner, Cuba was comparatively isolated in the 1990s after the fall of the USSR and the end of the Cold War, but has since entered bilateral co-operation with several South American countries, most notably Venezuela and Bolivia.
thumb|right|350px|Population distribution by ethnicity (1960 census)
}}
128 (PPP, 2015)
Because Cyprus has no working railway system, various other methods of transport are  needed to ensure the proper delivery of any cargo, be it human or freight.  Since the last railway was dismantled in 1952, the only remaining modes of transport are by road, by sea, and by air.
Cyprus is a member of the United Nations  along with most of its agencies as well as the Commonwealth of Nations, World Bank, International Monetary Fund and Council of Europe. In addition, the country has signed the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency Agreement (MIGA).
The Cretaceous (, ) is a geologic period and system that spans 79 million years from the end of the Jurassic Period  million years ago (mya) to the beginning of the Paleogene Period  mya. It is the last period of the Mesozoic Era.
)Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary
thumb|The Alter Strom, in the sea resort of [[Warnemünde, Germany.]]
Cognitive science is the interdisciplinary, scientific study of the mind and its processes.Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary field of researchers from Linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, computer science, and anthropology that seek to understand the mind.
In linguistics, a copula (plural: copulas or copulae; abbreviated ) is a word used to link the subject of a sentence with a predicate (a subject complement), such as the word is in the sentence &quot;The sky is blue.&quot; The word copula derives from the Latin noun for a &quot;link&quot; or &quot;tie&quot; that connects two different things.
The pages listed below contain information about trends and events in particular centuries and millenniums.
(aged )
A chemist (from Greek chēm (ía) alchemy + -ist; replacing chymist from Medieval Latin alchimistahttp://www.dictionary.
Combustion  or burningcolloquial meaning of burning is combustion accompanied by flames is a high-temperature exothermic redox chemical reaction between a fuel (the reductant) and an oxidant, usually atmospheric oxygen, that produces oxidized, often gaseous products, in a mixture termed as smoke. Combustion in a fire produces a flame, and the heat produced can make combustion self-sustaining.
(also Latin) (also Mongolian Script)  (also Latin) (also Latin)(see Languages using Cyrillic)
In articulatory phonetics, a consonant is a speech sound that is articulated with complete or partial closure of the vocal tract. Examples are , pronounced with the lips; , pronounced with the front of the tongue; , pronounced with the back of the tongue; , pronounced in the throat;  and , pronounced by forcing air through a narrow channel (fricatives); and  and , which have air flowing through the nose (nasals).
Costume jewelry, trinkets, fashion jewelry, junk jewelry, fake jewelry, or fallalery is jewelry manufactured as ornamentation to complement a particular fashionable costume or garmentBaker, Lillian. Fifty Years of Collectable Fashion Jewelry.
Comedy is a genre of film in which the main emphasis is on humor. These films are designed to make the audience laugh through amusement and most often work by exaggerating characteristics for humorous effect.
Cult Classic}}
Constantinopolis
Columbus is a Latinized version of the Italian surname &quot;Colombo&quot;. It most commonly refers to:
A constitutional monarchy is a form of monarchy in which the sovereign exercises their authorities in accordance with a written or unwritten constitution. Constitutional monarchy differs from absolute monarchy (in which a monarch holds absolute power), in that constitutional monarchs are bound to exercise their powers and authorities within the limits prescribed within an established legal framework.
British science fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke formulated three adages that are known as Clarke's three laws, of which the third law is the best known and most widely cited:
Caspar David Friedrich (5 September 1774 – 7 May 1840) was a 19th-century German Romantic landscape painter, generally considered the most important German artist of his generation. He is best known for his mid-period allegorical landscapes which typically feature contemplative figures silhouetted against night skies, morning mists, barren trees or Gothic or megalithic ruins.
Cow is the nickname for cattle, and the name of adult female cattle.
Cannibalism in humans is the act or practice of humans eating the flesh or internal organs of other human beings. A person who practices cannibalism is called a cannibal.
A chemical element or element is a species of atoms having the same number of protons in their atomic nuclei (i.e.
Centime (from ) is French for &quot;cent&quot;, and is used in English as the name of the fraction currency in several Francophone countries (including Switzerland, Algeria, Belgium, Morocco and France).
Generally speaking, a calendar year begins on the New Year's Day of the given calendar system and ends on the day before the following New Year's Day, and thus consists of a whole number of days. A year can be measured by also starting on any other named day of the calendar, and end on the day before this named day in the following year.
thumb|450px|Usage of:  West African CFA franc (XOF)  Central African CFA franc (XAF)
thumb|Representation of consciousness from the seventeenth century
A currency (from , &quot;in circulation&quot;, from ) in the most specific use of the word refers to money in any form when in actual use or circulation as a medium of exchange, especially circulating banknotes and coins. A more general definition is that a currency is a system of money (monetary units) in common use, especially in a nation.
}}
Chlorine is a chemical element with symbol Cl and atomic number 17. The second-lightest of the halogens, it appears between fluorine and bromine in the periodic table and its properties are mostly intermediate between them.
Calcium is a chemical element with symbol Ca and atomic number 20. An alkaline earth metal, calcium is a reactive pale yellow metal that forms a dark oxide-nitride layer when exposed to air.
Chromium is a chemical element with symbol Cr and atomic number 24. It is the first element in group 6.
A cymbal is a common percussion instrument. Often used in pairs, cymbals consist of thin, normally round plates of various alloys.
Cadmium is a chemical element with symbol Cd and atomic number 48. This soft, bluish-white metal is chemically similar to the two other stable metals in group 12, zinc and mercury.
Curium is a transuranic radioactive chemical element with symbol Cm and atomic number 96. This element of the actinide series was named after Marie and Pierre Curie – both were known for their research on radioactivity.
Californium is a radioactive chemical element with symbol Cf and atomic number 98. The element was first synthesized in 1950 at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (then the University of California Radiation Laboratory), by bombarding curium with alpha particles (helium-4 ions).
}}
A computer expo or computer show is a trade fair or exposition for computers and electronics. Expos usually include company or organization booths where products and technologies are demonstrated; talks and lectures; and general mixing of people with common interests.
}}&quot;
Cambridge is a city and the county town of Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom, famous for being the location of the University of Cambridge.
A college (Latin: collegium) is an educational institution or a constituent part of one. A college may be a degree-awarding tertiary educational institution, a part of a collegiate or federal university, or an institution offering vocational education.
. Chalmers.
A codex () (from the Latin caudex for &quot;trunk of a tree&quot; or block of wood, book), plural codices (), is a book constructed of a number of sheets of paper, vellum, papyrus, or similar materials, with hand-written contents.Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd ed: Codex: &quot;a manuscript volume&quot; The book is usually bound by stacking the pages and fixing one edge, and using a cover thicker than the sheets.
A calf (plural, calves) is the young of domestic cattle. Calves are reared to become adult cattle, or are slaughtered for their meat, called veal, and for their calfskin.
Cracking may refer to:
A community is a small or large social unit (a group of people) who have something in common, such as Norm(social)|norms]], religion, values, or identity.  Communities often share a sense of place that is situated in a given geographical area (e.
A community college is a type of educational institution. The term can have different meanings in different countries, but usually refers to an educational institution that provides workforce education and college transfer academic programs.
thumb|right|260px|The Civil Rights Memorial
Cross-dressing is the act of wearing items of clothing and other accoutrements commonly associated with the opposite sex within a particular society.&quot;cross-dress.
Cyberpunk is a subgenre of science fiction in a future setting that tends to focus on society as &quot;high tech low life&quot; featuring advanced technological and scientific achievements, such as information technology and cybernetics, juxtaposed with a degree of breakdown or radical change in the social order.
A comic strip is a sequence of drawings arranged in interrelated panels to display brief humor or form a narrative, often serialized, with text in balloons and captions. Traditionally, throughout the 20th century and into the 21st, these have been published in newspapers and magazines, with horizontal strips printed in black-and-white in daily newspapers, while Sunday newspapers offered longer sequences in special color comics sections.
In mathematics, the continuum hypothesis (abbreviated CH) is a hypothesis about the possible sizes of infinite sets. It states:
Çevik Bir (born 1939) is a retired Turkish army general. He was a member of the Turkish General Staff in the 1990s.
Collectivism is the moral stance, political philosophy, ideology, or social outlook that emphasizes the group and its interests. Collectivism is the opposite of individualism.
Nepeta is a genus of flowering plants in the family Lamiaceae also known as catmints. The genus name is reportedly in reference to Nepete, an ancient Etruscan city.
The Cornish Nationalist Party (CNP), , is a political party, founded by Dr James Whetter, who campaigned for independence for Cornwall. It was formed by people who left Cornwall's main nationalist party Mebyon Kernow on 28 May 1975,Mebyon Kernow and Cornish Nationalism by Dick Cole, Bernard Deacon, and Gary Tregidda but it is no longer for independence.
thumb|Close-up of the rotors in a [[Fialka cipher machine]]
Chicano or Chicana  (also spelled Xicano, Xicana) is a chosen identity of some Mexican Americans in the United States. The term Chicano is sometimes used interchangeably with Mexican-American.
}}
In film and video, a cutaway shot is the interruption of a continuously filmed action by inserting a view of something else. It is usually, although not always, followed by a cut back to the first shot, when the cutaway avoids a jump cut.
Coma is a state of unconsciousness in which a person cannot be awakened; fails to respond normally to painful stimuli, light, or sound; lacks a normal wake-sleep cycle; and does not initiate voluntary actions. A person in a state of coma is described as being comatose.
Call of Cthulhu is a horror fiction role-playing game based on H. P.
Constellations: An International Journal of Critical and Democratic Theory is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal of critical and democratic theory and successor of Praxis International. It is edited by Andrew Arato, Amy Allen, and Andreas Kalyvas.
(Mi'kmaq)
The Cthulhu Mythos is a shared fictional universe, based on the work of American horror writer H. P.
right|300px|thumb|Crane shot
Consequentialism is the class of normative ethical theories holding that the [of one's conduct are the ultimate basis for any judgment about the rightness or wrongness of that conduct. Thus, from a consequentialist standpoint, a morally right act (or omission from acting) is one that will produce a good outcome, or consequence.
Conscription, or drafting, is the compulsory enlistment of people in a national service, most often a military service. Conscription dates back to antiquity and continues in some countries to the present day under various names.
The cervix or cervix uteri () is the lower part of the uterus in the human female reproductive system. In a non-pregnant woman, the cervix is usually 2 to 3 cm long (~1 inch) and roughly cylindrical in shape.
compilation}}
A castrato (Italian, plural: castrati) is a type of classical male singing voice equivalent to that of a soprano, mezzo-soprano, or contralto. The voice is produced by castration of the singer before puberty, or it occurs in one who, due to an endocrinological condition, never reaches sexual maturity.
A counting-out game is a simple game intended to select a person to be &quot;it&quot;, often for the purpose of playing another game. These games usually require no materials, and are played with spoken words or hand gestures.
In cryptography, key size or key length is the number of bits in a key used by a cryptographic algorithm (such as a cipher).
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a psychosocial intervention that is the most widely used evidence-based practice for improving mental health. Guided by empirical research, CBT focuses on the development of personal coping strategies that target solving current problems and changing unhelpful patterns in cognitions (e.
or Hànyǔ or Zhōngwén
right|thumb|Plot of the function
Written records of the history of China can be found from as early as 1500 BCWilliam G. Boltz, Early Chinese Writing, World Archaeology, Vol.
thumb|250px|A multi-level stack interchange, buildings, houses, and park in [[Shanghai, China.]]
Cantonese is a language originating in Guangzhou City, Southern China
Gaius Valerius Catullus (, (; c. 84 – 54?
Country calling codes or country dial in codes are telephone dialing prefixes for the member countries or regions of the  International Telecommunication Union (ITU). They are defined by the ITU-T in standards E.
Christopher Marlowe,&quot;Christopher Marlowe was baptised as 'Marlow,' but he spelled his name 'Marley' in his one known surviving signature.&quot; David Kathman.
Cricket is a bat-and-ball sport contested by two teams.
thumb|Caving in a muddy section of [[Black Chasm Cave in California.|alt=A man caving in muddy passage with helictite formations on the walls and ceiling]]
A cave is a hollow place in the ground,Whitney, W. D.
Chinese numerals are words and characters used to denote numbers in Chinese.
A computer program is a collection of instructions that performs a specific task when executed by a computer. A computer requires programs to function and typically executes the program's instructions in a central processing unit.
In ordinary language, a crime is an unlawful act punishable by a state or other authority. The term &quot;crime&quot; does not, in modern criminal law, have any simple and universally accepted definition,Farmer, Lindsay: &quot;Crime, definitions of&quot;, in Cane and Conoghan (editors), The New Oxford Companion to Law, Oxford University Press, 2008 (), page 263 (Google Books).
In probability theory and statistics, the cumulative distribution function (CDF) of a real-valued random variable X, or just distribution function of X, evaluated at x, is the probability that X will take a value less than or equal to x.
In statistics, a central tendency (or measure of central tendency) is a central or typical value for a probability distribution.Weisberg H.
Celebrity refers to the fame and public attention accorded by the mass media to individuals or groups or, occasionally, animals, but is usually applied to the persons or groups of people (celebrity couples, families, etc.) themselves who receive such a status of fame and attention.
Cluster sampling is a sampling plan used when mutually homogeneous yet internally heterogeneous groupings are evident in a statistical population.  It is often used in marketing research.
thumb|upright=1.3|Tim Wiles, Director of Research at the [[Baseball Hall of Fame Library in Cooperstown, frequently dresses as Casey to recite the poem.
The classical guitar (also known as concert guitar, classical acoustic, nylon-string guitar, or Spanish guitar) is the member of the guitar family used in classical music. It is an acoustical wooden guitar with strings made of nylon, rather than the metal strings used in acoustic and electric guitars.
thumb|right|A set of Chinese dominoes
The Cenozoic Era (;}}}} also Cænozoic, Caenozoic or Cainozoic ;}}Oxford English Dictionary Second Edition, 1989. meaning &quot;new life&quot;, from Greek  kainós &quot;new&quot;, and  zōḗ &quot;life&quot;) is the current and most recent of the three Phanerozoic geological eras, following the Mesozoic Era and covering the period from 66 million years ago to the present day.
Chinese philosophy originates in the Spring and Autumn period and Warring States period, during a period known as the &quot;Hundred Schools of Thought&quot;, which was characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments. Although much of Chinese philosophy begins in the Warring States period, elements of Chinese philosophy have existed for several thousand years; some can be found in the Yi Jing (the Book of Changes), an ancient compendium of divination, which dates back to at least 672 BCE.
A complex number is a number that can be expressed in the form , where  and  are real numbers, and  is the imaginary unit (which satisfies the equation ).  In this expression,  is called the  of the complex number, and  is called the .
Cryptozoology is a pseudoscience that aims to prove the existence of entities from the folklore record, such as Bigfoot or chupacabras, as well as animals otherwise considered extinct, such as dinosaurs. Cryptozoologists refer to these entities as cryptids.
}}
A Christian is an adherent of Christianity.
The Republic of Colombia is a transcontinental country largely situated in the northwest of South America, with territories in North America. Colombia is bordered to the northwest by Panama; to the east by Venezuela and Brazil; to the south by Ecuador and Peru; and it shares maritime limits with Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Honduras, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti.
}}
}}
Since being liberalized in 1991, the Colombian telecommunications sector has added new services, expanded coverage, improved efficiency, and lowered costs. The sector has had the second largest (after energy) investment in infrastructure (54 percent) since 1997.
thumb|right|Túnel de Occidente in [[Antioquia. The tunnel is the longest in Latin America.
Colombian National Navy ∟  Colombian Naval Infantry
The history of Colombia includes the settlements and society by indigenous peoples, most notably, the Muisca Confederation, Quimbaya Civilization, and Tairona Chiefdoms; the Spanish arrived in 1499 and initiated a period of conquest and colonization, most noteworthy being Spanish conquest of the Muisca; ultimately creating the Viceroyalty of New Granada, with its capital at Bogotá. Independence from Spain was won in 1819, but by 1830 the &quot;Gran Colombia&quot; Federation was dissolved.
Colombia seeks diplomatic and commercial relations with all countries, regardless of their ideologies or political or economic systems. For this reason, the Colombian economy is quite open, relying on international trade and following the guidelines given by international law.
The geography of the Czech Republic is quite varied. Bohemia, at the west part of Czech Republic, consists of a river basin, drained by the Elbe (Czech: Labe) and Vltava rivers.
The Czech Republic is a unitary parliamentary constitutional republic, in which the President is the head of state and the Prime Minister is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the Government of the Czech Republic which reports to the lower house of Parliament.
$193.5 billion (2016, Nominal) $368.
Telephones - main lines in use:
Transport in the Czech Republic relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, water and air.
The Czech Republic is a Central European country, a member of the European Union, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OSCE), the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the United Nations (and all of its main specialized agencies and boards). It entertains diplomatic relations with 191 countries in the world, around half of which maintain a resident embassy in the Czech capital city, Prague.
Climbing is the activity of using one's hands, feet, or any other part of the body to ascend a steep object. It is done recreationally, competitively, in trades that rely on it, and in emergency rescue and military operations.
frame| The [[Congo River forms much of the border between these two countries.]]
The Copenhagen interpretation is an expression of the meaning of quantum mechanics that was largely devised in the years 1925 to 1927 by Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg. It remains one of the most commonly taught interpretations of quantum mechanics.
A customs union is a type of trade bloc which is composed of a free trade area with a common external tariff. The participant countries set up common external trade policy, but in some cases they use different import quotas.
Continental or mainland Europe is the continuous continent of Europe excluding its surrounding islands. It can also referred to ambiguously as the European continent—which can conversely mean the whole of Europe—and by Europeans, simply the Continent.
Category theory formalizes mathematical structure and its concepts in terms of a labeled directed graph called a category, whose nodes are called  objects whose labelled directed vertices are called  arrows (or morphisms). A category has two basic properties: the ability to compose the arrows associatively and the existence of an identity arrow for each object.
Canada Day () is the national day of Canada. A federal statutory holiday, it celebrates the anniversary of the July 1, 1867, enactment of the Constitution Act, 1867 (then called the British North America Act, 1867), which united the three separate colonies of Canada, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick into a single Dominion within the British Empire called Canada.
The Claudine series consists of four early novels by the French author Colette, published 1900-1904. Written in diary form, they describe the growth to maturity of a young girl, Claudine.
atherosclerotic vascular disease, coronary heart disease
Caesium or cesium. The American Chemical Society (ACS) has used the spelling cesium since 1921, following Webster's New International Dictionary.
A century (from the Latin centum, meaning one hundred; abbreviated c.) is a period of 100 years.
right|thumb|Clockwise from top left: D-shaped wire gate, D-shaped straight gate, Oval straight gate, Pear-shaped auto-locker, D-shaped screw-locker. Center is a standard carabiner rating.
}}
Capital punishment, also known as the death penalty, is a government sanctioned practice whereby a person is put to death by the state as a punishment for a crime. The sentence that someone be punished in such a manner is referred to as a death sentence, whereas the act of carrying out the sentence is known as an execution.
A cultural movement is a change in the way a number of different disciplines approach their work. This embodies all art forms, the sciences, and philosophies.
The chalcogens () are the chemical elements in group 16 of the periodic table. This group is also known as the oxygen family.
}}
thumb|An [[air filter that utilizes low-temperature oxidation catalyst used to convert carbon monoxide to less toxic carbon dioxide at room temperature. It can also remove formaldehyde from the air.
The circumference (from Latin circumferentia, meaning &quot;carrying around&quot;) of a closed curve or circular object is the linear distance around its edge. The circumference of a circle is of special importance in geometry and trigonometry.
Continuum mechanics is a branch of mechanics that deals with the analysis of the kinematics and the mechanical behavior of materials modeled as a continuous mass rather than as discrete particles. The French mathematician Augustin-Louis Cauchy was the first to formulate such models in the 19th century.
thumb|right|The principles from the French [[Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen still have constitutional importance]]
}}
. }}
Computation is any type of calculationComputation from the Free Merriam-Webster Dictionary that includes both arithmetical and non-arithmetical steps and follows a well-defined model understood and described as, for example, an algorithm.
Clowns are comic performers who employ slapstick or similar types of physical comedy, often in a mime style.
Coffea is a genus of flowering plants whose seeds, called coffee beans, are used to make various coffee beverages and products. It is a member of the family Rubiaceae.
Cycling, also called bicycling or biking, is the use of bicycles for transport, recreation, exercise or sport. Persons engaged in cycling are referred to as &quot;cyclists&quot;, &quot;bikers&quot;, or less commonly, as &quot;bicyclists&quot;.
thumb|right|310px|[[Lactose is a disaccharide found in animal milk. It consists of a molecule of D-galactose and a molecule of D-glucose bonded by beta-1-4 glycosidic linkage.
CSS Virginia was the first steam-powered ironclad warship built by the Confederate States Navy during the first year of the American Civil War; she was constructed as a casemate ironclad using the raised and cut down original lower hull and engines of the scuttled steam frigate . Virginia was one of the participants in the Battle of Hampton Roads, opposing the Union's  in March 1862.
Canon may refer to:
}}
Chemical thermodynamics is the study of the interrelation of heat and work with chemical reactions or with physical changes of state within the confines of the laws of thermodynamics. Chemical thermodynamics involves not only laboratory measurements of various thermodynamic properties, but also the application of mathematical methods to the study of chemical questions and the spontaneity of processes.
The standard works of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) are the four books that currently constitute its open scriptural canon. (The scriptural canon is &quot;open&quot; due to the LDS belief in continuous revelation.
The history of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is typically divided into three broad time periods:
Christian eschatology is a major branch of study within Christian theology dealing with the &quot;last things.&quot; Eschatology, from two Greek words meaning &quot;last&quot; (ἔσχατος) and &quot;study&quot; (-λογία), is the study of 'end things', whether the end of an individual life, the end of the age, the end of the world and the nature of the Kingdom of God.
Casuistry () is a method in applied ethics and jurisprudence, often characterised as a critique of principle- or rule-based reasoning.&quot;Casuistry&quot;, Dictionary of the History of Ideas.
Chinese input methods are methods that allow a computer user to input Chinese characters. Most, if not all, Chinese input methods fall into one of two categories: phonetic readings or root shapes.
Arch City, Indie Art Capital, [for the nickname &quot;Cowtown&quot; include:
Callisto may refer to:
) and Gumery (1860)}}
CPR, or cardiopulmonary resuscitation, is an emergency procedure to assist someone who has suffered cardiac arrest.
Cognitive psychology is the study of mental processes such as &quot;attention, language use, memory, perception, problem solving, creativity, and thinking&quot;. Much of the work derived from cognitive psychology has been integrated into various other modern disciplines of psychological study, including educational psychology, social psychology, personality psychology, abnormal psychology, developmental psychology, and economics.
Compost ( or ) is organic matter that has been decomposed and recycled as a fertilizer and soil amendment. Compost is a key ingredient in organic farming.
Capital}}
Cinema may refer to:
Capoeira () is an Afro-Brazilian martial art that combines elements of dance, acrobatics and music. It was developed in Brazil mainly by Angolans, at the beginning of the 16th century.
A carbon sink is a natural or artificial reservoir that accumulates and stores some carbon-containing chemical compound for an indefinite period. The process by which carbon sinks remove carbon dioxide () from the atmosphere is known as carbon sequestration.
Con may refer to:
Coal is a combustible black or brownish-black sedimentary rock usually occurring in rock strata in layers or veins called coal beds or coal seams. The harder forms, such as anthracite coal, can be regarded as metamorphic rock because of later exposure to elevated temperature and pressure.
A chemical bond is a lasting attraction between atoms that enables the formation of chemical compounds. The bond may result from the electrostatic force of attraction between atoms with opposite charges, or through the sharing of electrons as in the covalent bonds.
Cell may refer to:
Climate is the statistics of weather over long periods of time. It is measured by assessing the patterns of variation in temperature, humidity, atmospheric pressure, wind, precipitation, atmospheric particle count and other meteorological variables in a given region over long periods of time.
The history of the Comoros goes back some 1,500 years. It has been inhabited by various groups throughout this time.
thumb|250px|Map of all islands
The Comorians inhabiting Grande Comore, Anjouan, and Mohéli (86% of the population) share African-Arab origins. Islam is the dominant religion, and Quranic schools for children reinforce its influence.
Politics of the Union of the Comoros takes place in a framework of a federal presidential republic, whereby the President of the Comoros is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
In large part thanks to international aid programs, Moroni has international telecommunications service. Telephone service, however, is largely limited to the islands' few towns.
There are a number of systems of transport in the Comoros.  The Comoros possesses  of road, of which  are paved.
In November 1975, Comoros became the 143rd member of the United Nations. The new nation was defined as consisting of the entire archipelago, despite the fact that France maintains control over Mayotte.
The Comorian Security Force (French Armée nationale de développement) consist of a small standing army and a 500-member police force, as well as a 500-member defense force. A defense treaty with France provides naval resources for protection of territorial waters, training of Comorian military personnel, and air surveillance.
A computer worm is a standalone malware computer program that replicates itself in order to spread to other computers. Often, it uses a computer network to spread itself, relying on security failures on the target computer to access it.
In the formal languages of computer science and linguistics, the Chomsky hierarchy (occasionally referred to as Chomsky–Schützenberger hierarchy) is a containment hierarchy of classes of formal grammars.
CRT may refer to:
The cathode ray tube (CRT) is a vacuum tube that contains one or more electron guns and a phosphorescent screen, and is used to display images. It modulates, accelerates, and deflects electron beam(s) onto the screen to create the images.
A crystal or crystalline solid is a solid material whose constituents (such as atoms, molecules, or ions) are arranged in a highly ordered microscopic structure, forming a crystal lattice that extends in all directions. In addition, macroscopic single crystals are usually identifiable by their geometrical shape, consisting of flat faces with specific, characteristic orientations.
Computational chemistry is a branch of chemistry that uses computer simulation to assist in solving chemical problems. It uses methods of theoretical chemistry, incorporated into efficient computer programs, to calculate the structures and properties of molecules and solids.
Crash  is a novel by English author J. G.
(ISO C)
Cytology (from Greek , kytos, &quot;a hollow&quot;; and , [is the study of cell]s. Cytology is that branch of life science that deals with the study of cells in terms of structure, function and chemistry.
Castle of the Winds (also known as &quot;Castle of the Winds: Vanquish the Dark Forces&quot;) is a tile-based roguelike video game for Microsoft Windows. It was developed by SaadaSoft in 1989 and distributed by Epic MegaGames in 1993.
Calvinism (also called the Reformed tradition, Reformed Christianity, Reformed Protestantism, or the Reformed faith) is a major branch of Protestantism that follows the theological tradition and forms of Christian practice of John Calvin and other Reformation-era theologians.
In mathematics, a countable set is a set with the same cardinality (number of elements) as some subset of the set of natural numbers. A countable set is either a finite set or a countably infinite set.
}}
Celibacy (from Latin, cælibatus&quot;) is the state of voluntarily being unmarried, sexually abstinent, or both, usually for religious reasons. It is often in association with the role of a religious official or devotee.
A coalition government is formed when no single party wins a clear majority of all seats and parties form alliances to create a majority.
thumb|right|250px|Chemical engineers design, construct and operate process plants ([[fractionating columns pictured)]]
A comedian is one who entertains through comedy, such as jokes and other forms of humour.  Following is a list of comedians, comedy groups, and comedy writers.
thumb|upright=1.6|The interval  (-∞, -2]}} is not compact because it is not bounded.
Clodius is an alternate form of the Roman nomen Claudius, a patrician gens that was traditionally regarded as Sabine in origin. The alternation of o and au is characteristic of the Sabine dialect.
Marcus Tullius Cicero).}} (; ; 3 January 106 BC – 7 December 43 BC) was a Roman politician and lawyer, who served as consul in the year 63 BC.
Consul (abbrev. cos.
Classical mechanics is the branch of physics used to describe the motion of macroscopic objects. It is the most familiar of the theories of physics.
The cursus honorum (Latin: &quot;course of offices&quot;) was the sequential order of public offices held by aspiring politicians in both the Roman Republic and the early Roman Empire. It was designed for men of senatorial rank.
Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other, thus appearing to &quot;drift&quot; across the ocean bed.USGS: Historical perspective on plate tectonics, last updated 19 September 2011  The speculation that continents might have 'drifted' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596.
thumb|right|150px|Tropocollagen molecule: three left-handed procollagens (red, green, blue) join to form a right handed triple helical tropocollagen.
The Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) is an independent voluntary consumer organisation headquartered in St Albans, England, which promotes real ale, real cider and the traditional British pub. With over 185,000 members, it is now the largest single-issue consumer group in the UK,
300px|right|thumbnail|Overview of the CNO-I Cycle
thumb|A craps table with a game in progress.
A color code or colour code is a system for displaying information by using different colors.
CGI may refer to:
Cortex or cortical may refer to:
Collection or Collections usually refers to:
In mathematics, a Cauchy sequence (;  ), named after Augustin-Louis Cauchy, is a sequence whose elements become arbitrarily close to each other as the sequence progresses.Lang, Serge (1993), Algebra (Third ed.
Common Era or Current Era (CE) is a year-numbering system (calendar era) for the Julian and Gregorian calendars that refers to the years since the start of this era, that is, the years beginning with AD 1. The preceding era is referred to as before the Common or Current Era (BCE).
CPD may refer to:
Canonization is the act by which a Christian church declares that a person who has died was a saint, upon which declaration the person is included in the &quot;canon&quot;, or list, of recognized saints. Originally, a person was recognized as a saint without any formal process.
A carboxylic acid  is an organic compound that contains a carboxyl group (C(=O)OH). The general formula of a carboxylic acid is R–COOH, with R referring to the rest of the (possibly quite large) molecule.
Oxford English Dictionary
Conventional insulinotherapy is a therapeutic regimen for treatment of diabetes mellitus which contrasts with the newer intensive insulinotherapy.
Cream is a dairy product composed of the higher-butterfat layer skimmed from the top of milk before homogenization. In un-homogenized milk, the fat, which is less dense, will eventually rise to the top.
Chemical vapor deposition (CVD) is a chemical process used to produce high quality, high-performance, solid materials. The process is often used in the semiconductor industry to produce thin films.
In calculus, the chain rule is a formula for computing the derivative of the composition of two or more functions. That is, if f and g are functions, then the chain rule expresses the derivative of their composition  g}} (the function which maps x to f(g(x)) ) in terms of the derivatives of f and g and the product of functions as follows:
The P versus NP problem is a major unsolved problem in computer science. It asks whether every problem whose solution can be quickly verified (technically, verified in polynomial time) can also be solved quickly (again, in polynomial time).
}}
A Carnot heat engineIn French, Carnot uses machine à feu, which Thurston translates as heat-engine or steam-engine. In a footnote, Carnot distinguishes the steam-engine (machine à vapeur) from the heat-engine in general.
Context-sensitive is an adjective meaning &quot;depending on context&quot; or &quot;depending on circumstances&quot;. It may refer to:
In mathematics, a continuous function is a function for which sufficiently small changes in the input result in arbitrarily small changes in the output. Otherwise, a function is said to be a discontinuous function.
In vector calculus, the curl is a vector operator that describes the infinitesimal rotation of a vector field in three-dimensional Euclidean space. At every point in the field, the curl of that point is represented by a vector.
Complexity theory may refer to:
Charybdis (; Ancient Greek: Χάρυβδις, , Kharybdis) was a sea monster, later rationalized as a whirlpool and considered a shipping hazard in the Strait of Messina.
In mathematics, a conjecture is a conclusion or proposition based on incomplete information, for which no proof has been found. Conjectures such as the Riemann hypothesis (still a conjecture) or Fermat's Last Theorem (which was a conjecture until proven in 1995) have shaped much of mathematical history as new areas of mathematics are developed in order to prove them.
Christoph Ludwig Agricola (November 5, 1667 – August 8, 1719) was a German landscape painter. He was born and died at Regensburg (Ratisbon).
A cardinal is an official in the Christian Church, specifically:
In mathematics, the Cantor set is a set of points lying on a single line segment that has a number of remarkable and deep properties.  It was discovered in 1874 by Henry John Stephen SmithHenry J.
In mathematics, cardinal numbers, or cardinals for short, are a generalization of the natural numbers used to measure the cardinality (size) of sets. The cardinality of a finite set is a natural number: the number of elements in the set.
In mathematics, the cardinality of a set is a measure of the &quot;number of elements of the set&quot;. For example, the set A = {2, 4, 6} contains 3 elements, and therefore A has a cardinality of 3.
thumb|right|A Halal Bakery in Tuanjie St, the main street of Linxia City.
Teochew cuisine, also known as Chiuchow cuisine, Chaozhou cuisine or Chaoshan cuisine, originated from the Chaoshan region in the eastern part of China's Guangdong Province, which includes the cities of Chaozhou, Shantou and Jieyang. Teochew cuisine bears more similarities to that of Fujian cuisine, with which it shares some dishes.
co-NP ?}}
thumb|right|250px|[[Po' boy sandwiches are associated with the cuisine of New Orleans.]]
Charles V may refer to:
The Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas is an agreement that was designed to solve through international cooperation the problems involved in the conservation of living resources of the high seas, considering that because of the development of modern technology some of these resources are in danger of being overexploited.
The Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution, often abbreviated as Air Pollution or CLRTAP, is intended to protect the human environment against air pollution and to gradually reduce and prevent air pollution, including long-range transboundary air pollution. It is implemented by the European Monitoring and Evaluation Programme (EMEP), directed by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE).
CITE|and|Citation (disambiguation)}}
In the computer science subfield of algorithmic information theory, a Chaitin constant (Chaitin omega number)mathworld.wolfram.
In mathematics, computable numbers are the real numbers that can be computed to within any desired precision by a finite, terminating algorithm. They are also known as the recursive numbers or the computable reals or recursive reals.
An electric current is a flow of electric charge. In electric circuits this charge is often carried by moving electrons in a wire.
A context-sensitive grammar (CSG) is a formal grammar in which the left-hand sides and right-hand sides of any production rules may be surrounded by a context of terminal and nonterminal symbols. Context-sensitive grammars are more general than context-free grammars, in the sense that there are languages that can be described by CSG but not by context-free grammars.
In theoretical computer science, a context-sensitive language is a formal language that can be defined by a context-sensitive grammar (and equivalently by a noncontracting grammar).  Context-sensitive is one of the four types of grammars in the Chomsky hierarchy.
The Chinese room argument holds that a program cannot give a computer a &quot;mind&quot;, &quot;understanding&quot; or &quot;consciousness&quot;, regardless of how intelligently or human-like the program may make the computer behave.  The argument was first presented by philosopher John Searle in his paper, &quot;Minds, Brains, and Programs&quot;, published in Behavioral and Brain Sciences in 1980.
Charon may refer to:
A circle is a simple closed shape in Euclidean geometry. It is the set of all points in a plane that are at a given distance from a given point, the centre; equivalently it is the curve traced out by a point that moves so that its distance from a given point is constant.
A cardinal (, literally Cardinal of the Holy Roman Church) is a senior ecclesiastical leader, considered a Prince of the Church, and usually (now always for those created when still within the voting age-range) an ordained bishop of the Roman Catholic Church. The cardinals of the Church are collectively known as the College of Cardinals.
thumb|200px|An illustration from the E codex of the Cantigas de Santa Maria.
Claudio Giovanni Antonio Monteverdi (; 15 May 1567 (baptized) – 29 November 1643) was an Italian composer, string player and choirmaster. A composer of both secular and church music, and a pioneer in the development of opera, he is considered a crucial transitional figure between the Renaissance and the Baroque periods of music history.
Mk 2:
A comic book or comicbook,Scott Shaw!, Mike Kazaleh, &quot;Secret Agent Orange,&quot; Annoying Orange #1, New York: Papercutz, December 2012, pp.
In topology and related branches of mathematics, a connected space is a topological space that cannot be represented as the union of two or more disjoint nonempty open subsets. Connectedness is one of the principal topological properties that are used to distinguish topological spaces.
thumb|350px|right|[[HeLa cells stained for nuclear DNA with the  Blue Hoechst dye. The central and rightmost cell are in interphase, thus their entire nuclei are labeled.
In mathematics, a contraction mapping, or contraction or contractor, on a metric space (M,d) is a function f from M to itself, with the property that there is some nonnegative real number 0\leq k &lt; 1 such that for all x and y in M,
A covalent bond, also called a molecular bond, is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms. These electron pairs are known as shared pairs or bonding pairs, and the stable balance of attractive and repulsive forces between atoms, when they share electrons, is known as covalent bonding.
Condensation polymers are any kind of polymers formed through a condensation reaction—where molecules join together—losing small molecules as byproducts such as water or methanol, as opposed to addition polymers which involve the reaction of unsaturated monomers. Types of condensation polymers include polyamides, polyacetals and [p
Timeline of computing presents events in the history of computing organized by year and grouped into six topic areas: predictions and concepts, first use and inventions, hardware systems and processors, operating systems, programming languages, and new application areas.
The Springs
}}
This is a list of cartoonists, visual artists who specialize in drawing cartoons. This list includes only notable cartoonists and is not meant to be exhaustive.
A civilization (UK and US) or civilisation (UK variant) is any complex society characterized by urban development, social stratification imposed by a cultural elite, symbolic systems of communication (for example, writing systems), and a perceived separation from and domination over the natural environment.
Achille-Claude Debussy (,Claude Debussy – pronunciation at Forvo.com  22 August 1862 – 25 March 1918), known since the 1890s as Claude-Achille Debussy or Claude Debussy,Born Achille-Claude Debussy, he was known as &quot;Achille&quot; during his student days, changed his forename to &quot;Claude-Achille&quot; around 1890, and after 1894 was known simply as &quot;Claude Debussy&quot; (Fulcher, Jane F.
Charles Baxter  (born May 13, 1947) is an American novelist, essayist, and poet.
Ceres most commonly refers to:
Cultural imperialism comprises the cultural aspects of imperialism. Imperialism here refers to the creation and maintenance of unequal relationships between civilizations, favoring the more powerful civilization.
A chemical reaction is a process that leads to the transformation of one set of chemical substances to another. Classically, chemical reactions encompass changes that only involve the positions of electrons in the forming and breaking of chemical bonds between atoms, with no change to the nuclei (no change to the elements present), and can often be described by a chemical equation.
Charleston most commonly refers to:
The Capetian dynasty , also known as the House of France, is a dynasty of Frankish origin, founded by Hugh Capet. It is among the largest and oldest royal houses in Europe and the world, and consisting of Hugh Capet's male-line descendants.
In geometry, a cuboctahedron is a polyhedron with 8 triangular faces and 6 square faces. A cuboctahedron has 12 identical vertices, with 2 triangles and 2 squares meeting at each, and 24 identical edges, each separating a triangle from a square.
Canton may refer to:
Class may refer to:
Critical point may refer to:
In geometry, a cubeEnglish cube from Old French &lt; Latin cubus &lt; Greek κύβος (kubos) meaning &quot;a cube, a die, vertebra&quot;. In turn from PIE *keu(b)-, &quot;to bend, turn&quot;.
Commuter rail,  also called suburban rail, is a passenger rail transport service that primarily operates between a city centre and middle to outer suburbs beyond 15 km (10 miles) and commuter towns or other locations that draw large numbers of commuters—people who travel on a daily basis. Trains operate following a schedule at speeds varying from 50 to 200 km/h (30 to 125 mph).
Christian Goldbach (March 18, 1690 – November 20, 1764) was a German mathematician who also studied law. He is remembered today for Goldbach's conjecture.
The censor was an officer in ancient Rome who was responsible for maintaining the census, supervising public morality, and overseeing certain aspects of the government's finances.Suolahti, J.
In convex geometry, a convex set is a subset of an affine space that is closed under convex combinations. More specifically, in a Euclidean space, a convex region is a region where, for every pair of points within the region, every point on the straight line segment that joins the pair of points is also within the region.
Chaos theory is a branch of mathematics focused on the behavior of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions. 'Chaos' is an interdisciplinary theory stating that within the apparent randomness of chaotic complex systems, there are underlying patterns, constant feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, self-organization, and reliance on programming at the initial point known as sensitive dependence on initial conditions.
In architecture, a cupola  is a small, most often dome-like, structure on top of a building. Often used to provide a lookout or to admit light and air, it usually crowns a larger roof or dome.
The chupacabra or chupacabras (, literally &quot;goat-sucker&quot;; from chupar, &quot;to suck&quot;, and cabra, &quot;goat&quot;) is a legendary creature in the folklore of parts of the Americas, with its first purported sightings reported in Puerto Rico. The name comes from the animal's reported habit of attacking and drinking the blood of livestock, especially goats.
A cell wall is a structural layer surrounding some types of cells, situated outside the cell membrane. It can be tough, flexible, and sometimes rigid.
Classical elements typically refer to the concepts in Ancient Greece, of earth, water, air, fire, and aether, which were proposed to explain the nature and complexity of all matter in terms of simpler substances.  Ancient cultures in Egypt, Babylonia, Japan, Tibet, and India had similar lists, sometimes referring in local languages to &quot;air&quot; as &quot;wind&quot; and the fifth element as &quot;void&quot;.
Fire has been an important part of all cultures and religions from pre-history to modern day and was vital to the development of civilization. It has been regarded in many different contexts throughout history, but especially as a metaphysical constant of the world.
thumb|100px|Alchemical symbol for air
Water is one of the elements in ancient Greek philosophy, in the Asian Indian system Panchamahabhuta, and in the Chinese cosmological and physiological system Wu Xing. In contemporary esoteric traditions, it is commonly associated with the qualities of emotion and intuition.
Earth is one of the classical elements, in some systems numbering four along with air, fire, and water.
Blue Jam was an ambient radio comedy programme created and directed by Chris Morris. It aired on BBC Radio 1 in the early hours of the morning from 1997 to 1999.
}}
A collective trauma is a traumatic psychological effect shared by a group of people of any size, up to and including an entire society. Traumatic events witnessed by an entire society can stir up collective sentiment, often resulting in a shift in that society's culture and mass actions.
A church building, often simply called a church, is a building used for Christian religious activities, particularly for worship services. The term in its architectural sense is most often used by Christians to refer to their religious buildings, but it is sometimes used (by analogy) to refer to buildings of other religions.
Childe's Tomb is a granite cross on Dartmoor, Devon, England. Although not in its original form, it is more elaborate than most of the crosses on Dartmoor, being raised upon a constructed base, and it is known that a kistvaen is underneath.
In linguistics, cognates are words that have a common etymological origin. In etymology, the cognate category excludes doublets and loanwords.
Chromatography is a laboratory technique for the separation of a mixture.
Carl Friedrich Michael Meinhof (July 23, 1857 – February 11, 1944) was a German linguist and one of the first linguists to study African languages.
250px|thumb|right|A [[Microwriter MW4 (circa 1980)]]
Cell biology (formerly called cytology, from the Greek κυτος, kytos, &quot;vessel&quot;) is a branch of biology that studies the different structures and functions of the cell and focuses mainly on the idea of the cell as the basic unit of life. Cell biology explains the structure, organization of the organelles they contain, their physiological properties, metabolic processes, Signaling pathways, life cycle, and interactions with their environment.
million
thumb|right|Schematic of a [[cytomegalovirus]]
The cut-up technique (or découpé in French) is an aleatory literary technique in which a text is cut up and rearranged to create a new text. The concept can be traced to at least the Dadaists of the 1920s, but was popularized in the late 1950s and early 1960s by writer William S.
Cretin}}
Cretin may refer to:
Chloroplasts }}}} are organelles, specialized subunits, in plant and algal cells. Their discovery inside plant cells is usually credited to Julius von Sachs (1832–1897), an influential botanist and author of standard botanical textbooks – sometimes called &quot;The Father of Plant Physiology&quot;.
, genitive
Cepheus (Ancient Greek: Κηφεύς Kepheús) may refer to:
Cassiopeia () may refer to:
, genitive
, genitive
, genitive
, genitive
, genitive
Corvus is a genus of birds including species commonly known as crows, ravens, rooks and jackdaws.
, genitive , .
, genitive
Communion may refer to:
Calories are units of energy. Various definitions exist but fall into two broad categories.
Cheddar}}
Compact disc (CD) is a digital optical disc data storage format released in 1982 and co-developed by Philips and Sony. The format was originally developed to store and play only sound recordings but was later adapted for storage of data (CD-ROM).
, genitive
]] clarinet (Oehler system)
Cánes Venátici, genitive
, genitive
A chromosome (from ancient Greek: χρωμόσωμα, chromosoma, chroma means color, soma means body) is a DNA molecule with part or all of the genetic material (genome) of an organism.
Charge or charged may refer to:
)Virgil's Aeneid
(Sabtah)
Cleopatra ( Kleopatra; &quot;Glory of the father&quot;) is a popular ancient Greek name used in the ancient world to refer to many Greco-Macedonian princesses, including those who reigned as queens of ancient Egypt. It may refer to:
A carcinogen is any substance, radionuclide, or radiation that promotes carcinogenesis, the formation of cancer. This may be due to the ability to damage the genome or to the disruption of cellular metabolic processes.
Camouflage is the use of any combination of materials, coloration, or illumination for concealment, either by making animals or objects hard to see (crypsis), or by disguising them as something else (mimesis). Examples include the leopard's spotted coat, the battledress of a modern soldier, and the leaf-mimic katydid's wings.
A clock is an instrument to measure, keep, and indicate time. The word clock is derived (via Dutch, Northern French, and Medieval Latin) from the Celtic words clagan and clocca meaning &quot;bell&quot;.
}}
thumb|right|[[Fire test furnace insulated with firebrick and ceramic fibre insulation.]]
The Wu Xing (), also known as the Five Elements, Five Phases, the Five Agents, the Five Movements, Five Processes, the Five Steps/Stages and the Five Planets of significant gravity:Jupiter-木,Saturn-土,Mercury-水,Venus-金,Mars-火Dr Zai, J. [https://books.
The Church of Christ, Scientist was founded in 1879 in Boston, Massachusetts, by Mary Baker Eddy, author of Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures, and founder of Christian Science. The church was founded &quot;to commemorate the word and works of [Christ Jesus]&quot; and &quot;reinstate primitive Christianity and its lost element of healing&quot;.
Canon law is the body of laws and regulations made by ecclesiastical authority (Church leadership), for the government of a Christian organization or church and its members. It is the internal ecclesiastical law, or operational policy, governing the Catholic Church (both the Latin Church and the  Eastern Catholic Churches), the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches, and the individual national churches within the Anglican Communion.
Columbanus (, 543 – 21 November 615), also known as St. Columban, was an Irish missionary notable for founding a number of monasteries from around 590 in the Frankish and Lombard kingdoms, most notably Luxeuil Abbey in present-day France and Bobbio Abbey in present-day Italy.
Saint Cyril}}
Computational complexity may refer to:
Coercion  is the practice of forcing another party to act in an involuntary manner by use of intimidation or threats or some other form of pressure or force. It involves a set of various types of forceful actions that violate the free will of an individual to induce a desired response, for example: a bully demanding lunch money from a student or the student gets beaten.
The client–server model is a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between the providers of a resource or service, called servers, and service requesters, called clients. Often clients and servers communicate over a computer network on separate hardware, but both client and server may reside in the same system.
(Irish)&quot;Action to match our speech&quot;
In natural theology, a cosmological argument is an argument in which the existence of a unique being, generally seen as some kind of god or demiurge is deduced or inferred from facts or alleged facts concerning causation, change, motion, contingency, or finitude in respect of the universe as a whole or processes within it. It is traditionally known as an argument from universal causation, an argument from first cause, or the causal argument.
}}
Cow tipping is the purported activity of sneaking up on any unsuspecting or sleeping upright cow and pushing it over for entertainment. The practice of cow tipping is generally considered an urban legend, and stories of such feats viewed as tall tales.
Cassandra or Kassandra (Ancient Greek: Κασσάνδρα, , also ), also known as Alexandra, was a daughter of King Priam and of Queen Hecuba of Troy in Greek mythology. In modern usage her name is employed as a rhetorical device to indicate someone whose accurate prophecies are not believed by those around them.
A couplet is a pair of lines of metre in poetry.  A couplet usually consists of two lines that rhyme and have the same metre.
}}
CPM may refer to:
The Celestines were a Roman Catholic monastic order, a branch of the Benedictines, founded in 1244. At the foundation of the new rule, they were called Hermits of St Damiano, or Moronites (or Murronites), and did not assume the appellation of Celestines until after the election of their founder, Peter of Morone (Pietro Murrone), to the Papacy as Celestine V.
A carnivore  meaning 'Meat Eater' (Latin, carne meaning 'meat' or 'flesh' and vorare meaning 'to devour') is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.Nutrient Requirements: Carnivores.
The Celts ( or , see pronunciation of Celt for different usages) were an Indo-European people in Iron Age and Medieval Europe who spoke Celtic languages and had cultural similarities, although the relationship between ethnic, linguistic and cultural factors in the Celtic world remains uncertain and controversial. The exact geographic spread of the ancient Celts is also disputed; in particular, the ways in which the Iron Age inhabitants of Great Britain and Ireland should be regarded as Celts has become a subject of controversy.
Conductor or conduction may refer to:
Conectiva was a company founded on August 28, 1995, in Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil, by a group of friends, among them Arnaldo Carvalho de Melo, who was a pioneer in the distribution of Linux and open source software in Brazilian Portuguese, Spanish and English for all of Latin America. Besides a customized Linux distribution for the Latin American market, Conectiva developed a series of products and additional services directed to meet the market demand for open source tools, including books, manuals, additional software like Linux Tools and embedded systems, OEM programs, applications port, training kits and the &quot;Revista do Linux&quot; Linux magazine.
In number theory, two integers a and b are said to be relatively prime, mutually prime, or coprime (also spelled co-prime)Eaton, James S. Treatise on Arithmetic.
The control unit (CU) is a component of a computer's central processing unit (CPU) that directs the operation of the processor. It tells the computer's memory, arithmetic/logic unit and input and output devices on how to respond to a program's instructions.
The cello ( ; plural cellos or celli) or violoncello ( ; ) is a bowed, and sometimes plucked, string instrument with four strings tuned in perfect fifths. The strings from low to high are generally tuned to C2, G2, D3 and A3, an octave lower than the viola.
A control store is the part of a CPU's control unit that stores the CPU's microprogram.  It is usually accessed by a microsequencer.
A conditional proof is a proof that takes the form of asserting a conditional, and proving that the antecedent of the conditional necessarily leads to the consequent.
Conjunction introduction (often abbreviated simply as conjunction and also called and introductionCopi and CohenMoore and Parker) is a valid rule of inference of propositional logic. The rule makes it possible to introduce a conjunction into a logical proof.
The use of the English language in most member countries of the Commonwealth of Nations was inherited from British colonisation. English is spoken as a first or second language in most of the Commonwealth.
Charles McCarry (born in 1930, in Massachusetts, USA) is an American writer, primarily of spy fiction, and a former undercover operative for the Central Intelligence Agency who The Wall Street Journal, in 2013, described as the dean of American spy writers; The New Republic magazine calls him &quot;poet laureate of the CIA.&quot;August 4, 1979, pp.
The Cimbri were an ancient people, either Germanic or Celtic who, together with the Teutones and the Ambrones, fought the Roman Republic between 113 and 101 BC. The Cimbri were initially successful, particularly at the Battle of Arausio, in which a large Roman army was routed, after which they raided large areas in Gaul and Hispania.
A carbine ( or ),&quot;Carbine&quot;. Dictionary.
Chinese cuisine is an important part of Chinese culture, which includes cuisine originating from the diverse regions of China, as well as from Chinese people in other parts of the world. Because of the Chinese diaspora and historical power of the country, Chinese cuisine has influenced many other cuisines in Asia, with modifications made to cater to local palates.
thumb|[[David (biblical king)|David and Jeremiah from the Well of Moses]]
COINTELPRO (a portmanteau derived from COunter INTELligence PROgram) was a series of covert, and often  illegal, projects conducted by the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) aimed at surveilling, infiltrating, discrediting, and disrupting American political organizations.
A cruise missile is a guided missile used against terrestrial targets that remains in the atmosphere and flies the major portion of its flight path at approximately constant speed.  Cruise missiles are designed to deliver a large warhead over long distances with high precision; that is, small circular error probability.
The Cyclades (;  ) are an island group in the Aegean Sea, southeast of mainland Greece and a former administrative prefecture of Greece. They are one of the island groups which constitute the Aegean archipelago.
}}
Curry (, plural curries) is an umbrella term referring to a number of dishes originating in the  cuisine of the Indian subcontinent. The common feature is the use of complex combinations of spices or herbs, usually including fresh or dried hot chillies.
†Camelus moreli (fossil)
Chaldean}}
In mathematics and computer science, currying is the technique of translating the evaluation of a function that takes multiple arguments (or a tuple of arguments) into evaluating a sequence of functions, each with a single argument. Currying is related to, but not the same as, partial application.
Case or CASE may refer to:
thumb|An image created by using [[POV-Ray 3.6]]
Cartridge may refer to:
Chaosium Inc. is one of the oldest publishers of role-playing games still in existence.
}}}}
The Cornwall Wildlife Trust is a charitable organisation founded in 1962 that is concerned solely with Cornwall, England.
Conservatory may refer to:
In mathematics, in general topology, compactification is the process or result of making a topological space into a compact space. A compact space is a space in which every open cover of the space contains a finite subcover.
In differential geometry, one can attach to every point x of a smooth (or differentiable) manifold a vector space called the cotangent space at x. Typically, the cotangent space is defined as the dual space of the tangent space at x, although there are more direct definitions (see below).
Ediacaran–Recent
Conservative Judaism (known as Masorti Judaism outside North America) is a major Jewish denomination, which views Jewish Law, or Halakha, as both binding and subject to historical development. The Conservative rabbinate therefore employs modern historical-critical research, rather than only traditional methods and sources, and lends great weight to its constituency when determining its stance on matters of Law.
CDE may refer to:
Children of Dune is a 1976 science fiction novel by Frank Herbert, the third in his Dune series of six novels. Initially selling over 75,000 copies, it became the first hardcover best-seller ever in the science fiction field.
Candide, ou l'Optimisme, (; French: ) is a French satire first published in 1759 by Voltaire, a philosopher of the Age of Enlightenment. via Gallica The novella has been widely translated, with English versions titled Candide: or, All for the Best (1759); Candide: or, The Optimist (1762); and Candide: or, Optimism (1947).
In computer architecture, a bus (a contraction of the Latin [is a communication system that transfers data between components inside a computer], or between computers. This expression covers all related hardware components (wire, optical fiber, etc.
Cadillac is a General Motors luxury car brand.
Chinese checkers (US and Canadian spelling) or Chinese chequers (UK spelling) is a strategy board game of German origin (named &quot;Sternhalma&quot;) which can be played by two, three, four, or six people, playing individually or with partners.According to Hoyle Puzzle &amp; Board Games User Guide, five people cannot play, because one player would lack an opponent sitting opposite.
*Chaunus marinus
Croquet is a sportThe Croquet Association (CA), the national governing body for the sport of Croquet in EnglandOxford Croquet.com, &quot;Croquet is a satisfying sport utilising tactics and touch in equal measure&quot; that involves hitting plastic or wooden balls with a mallet through [(often called &quot;wickets&quot; in the United States) embedded in a grass playing court.
The following are some historical Germanic Confederations:
Constantine most commonly refers to one of the following:
This is a list of lists of composers grouped by various criteria.
, , Reprise, }}
A cuisine ( ; from French , in turn from Latin coquere &quot;to cook&quot;) is a style of cooking characterized by distinctive ingredients, techniques and dishes, and usually associated with a specific culture or geographic region.&quot;Cuisine.
A codec is a device or computer program for encoding or decoding a digital data stream or signal. Codec is a portmanteau of coder-decoder.
The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN) is a repository of over 250,000 software modules and accompanying documentation for 39,000 distributions, written in the Perl programming language by over 12,000 contributors.  CPAN can denote either the archive network itself, or the Perl program that acts as an interface to the network and as an automated software installer (somewhat like a package manager).
A cement is a binder, a substance used in construction that sets, hardens and adheres to other materials, binding them together. Cement is seldom used solely, but is used to bind sand and gravel (aggregate) together.
Caribbean cuisine is a fusion of African,&quot;Cuisine.&quot; (Caribbean.
Conservatism is a political and social philosophy that promotes retaining traditional social institutions in the context of culture and civilization. By some definitions, conservatives have variously sought to preserve institutions including religion, monarchy, parliamentary government, property rights  and the social hierarchy, emphasizing stability and continuity, while the more extreme elements called reactionaries oppose modernism and seek a return to &quot;the way things were&quot;.
Classical liberalism is a political ideology, a branch of liberalism which advocates civil liberties under the rule of law with an emphasis on economic freedom.  It is closely related to libertarianism and to free market capitalism.
}}
Crank may refer to:
A clade (from }}, klados, &quot;branch&quot;) is a group of organisms that consists of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants, and represents a single &quot;branch&quot; on the &quot;tree of life&quot;.
Communications in Afghanistan is under the control of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (MCIT). It has rapidly expanded after the Karzai administration took over in late 2001, and has embarked on wireless companies, internet, radio stations and television channels.
Christian of Oliva (), also Christian of Prussia () (died 4 December(?) 1245) was the first missionary bishop of Prussia.
In mathematics, especially in order theory, the cofinality cf(A) of a partially ordered set A is the least of the cardinalities of the cofinal subsets of A.
A citadel is the core fortified area of a town or city. It may be a fortress, castle, or fortified center.
Mail or maille (also chain mail(le)&quot;chain mail&quot; Cambridge dictionaries online or chainmail(le)) is a type of armour consisting of small metal rings linked together in a pattern to form a mesh. A coat of this armour is often referred to as a hauberk.
In Greek mythology, Cerberus (;  Kerberos ), often called the &quot;hound of Hades&quot;, is the monstrous multi-headed dog that guards the gates of the Underworld to prevent the dead from leaving. Cerberus was the offspring of the monsters Echidna and Typhon, and usually is described as having three heads, a serpent for a tail, and snakes protruding from parts of his body.
Camel case (stylized as camelCase or CamelCase; also known as camel caps or more formally as medial capitals) is the practice of writing compound words or phrases such that each word or abbreviation in the middle of the phrase begins with a capital letter, with no intervening spaces or punctuation. Common examples include &quot;iPhone&quot;, &quot;eBay&quot;, &quot;FedEx&quot;, and &quot;HarperCollins&quot;.
A cereal is any grass cultivated for the edible components of its grain (botanically, a type of fruit called a caryopsis), composed of the endosperm, germ, and bran. Cereal grains are grown in greater quantities and provide more food energy worldwide than any other type of crophttp://www.
Christendom has several meanings. In a contemporary sense, it may refer to the worldwide community of Christians, the adherents of Christianity, the Christian-majority countries, the countries in which Christianity dominates,See Merriam-Webster.
Middle Pleistocene – recent
A gas compressor is a device that pressurizes fluids.
Conan the Barbarian (also known as Conan the Cimmerian) is a fictional sword and sorcery hero who originated in pulp fiction magazines and has since been adapted to books, comics, several films (including Conan the Barbarian and Conan the Destroyer), television programs (cartoon and live-action), video games, role-playing games and other media. The character was created by writer Robert E.
thumb|200px|X-rays of Daniel Jones' .
or CoMo
Cross-country skiing is a form of skiing where skiers rely on their own locomotion to move across snow-covered terrain, rather than using ski lifts or other forms of assistance. Cross-country skiing is widely practiced as a sport and recreational activity; however, some still use it as a means of transportation.
The Cy Young Award is given annually to the best pitchers in Major League Baseball (MLB), one each for the American League (AL) and National League (NL). The award was first introduced in 1956 by Baseball Commissioner Ford Frick in honor of Hall of Fame pitcher Cy Young, who died in 1955.
Christianity and antisemitism deals with the hostility of Christian Churches, Christian groups, and by Christians in general to Judaism and the Jewish people.
The Boeing C-17 Globemaster III is a large military transport aircraft. It was developed for the United States Air Force (USAF) from the 1980s to the early 1990s by McDonnell Douglas.
In computer science, garbage collection (GC) is a form of automatic memory management. The garbage collector, or just collector, attempts to reclaim garbage, or memory occupied by objects that are no longer in use by the program.
}}
Constantine II may refer to:
Constans (;Jones, p. 220 c.
Cheerleading ranges from chanting, to intense physical activity for sports team motivation, audience entertainment, or competition based upon organized routines. Competitive routines typically range anywhere from one to three minutes,  and contain components of tumbling, dance, jumps, cheers, and stunting.
The Cottingley Fairies appear in a series of five photographs taken by Elsie Wright (1901–88) and Frances Griffiths (1907–86), two young cousins who lived in Cottingley, near Bradford in England. In 1917, when the first two photographs were taken, Elsie was 16 years old and Frances was 9.
)
In morphology and syntax, a clitic ( from Greek κλιτικός klitikos, &quot;inflexional&quot;) is a morpheme that has syntactic characteristics of a word, but depends phonologically on another word or phrase. In this sense, it is syntactically independent but phonologically dependent, always attached to a host.
In formal language theory, a context-free grammar (CFG) is a certain type of formal grammar:  a set of production rules that describe all possible strings in a given formal language. Production rules are simple replacements.
Cryonics (from Greek κρύος kryos meaning 'cold') is the low-temperature preservation (usually at −196°C) of people who cannot be sustained by contemporary medicine, with the hope that [and restoration to full health may be possible in the far future.
The European patent with unitary effect (EPUE), more commonly known as the unitary patent, is a new type of European patent in advanced stage of adoption which would be valid in participating member states of the European Union. Unitary effect can be registered for a European patent upon grant, replacing validation of the European patent in the individual countries concerned.
A cistron is an alternative term to a gene. The term cistron is used to emphasize that genes exhibit a specific behavior in a cis-trans test; distinct positions (or loci) within a genome are cistronic.
Commonwealth is a traditional English term for a political community founded for the common good. Historically it has sometimes been synonymous with &quot;republic&quot;.
}}
College football is American football played by teams of student athletes fielded by American universities, colleges, and military academies, or Canadian football played by teams of student athletes fielded by Canadian universities. It was through college football play that American football rules first gained popularity in the United States.
Consubstantiation is a theological doctrine that (like Transubstantiation) attempts to describe the nature of the Christian Eucharist in concrete metaphysical terms. It holds that during the sacrament, the fundamental &quot;substance&quot; of the body and blood of Christ are present alongside the substance of the bread and wine, which remain present.
journal |author1=Adl SM |author2=Simpson AGB |author3=Farmer MA |author4=Andersen RA |author5=Anderson OR |author6=Barta JR |author7=Bowser SS |author8=Brugerolle G |author9=Fensome RA |author10=Fredericq S |author11=James TY |author12=Karpov S |author13=Kugrens P |author14=Krug J |author15=Lane CE |author16=Lewis LA |author17=Lodge J |author18=Lynn DH |author19=Mann DG |author20=McCourt RM |author21=Mendoza L |author22=Moestrup Ø |author23=Mozley-Standridge SE |author24=Nerad TA |author25=Shearer CA |author26=Smirnov AV |author27=Speigel FW |author28=Taylor MFJR | year = 2005 | title = The new higher level classification of eukaryotes with emphasis on the taxonomy of protists | journal = Journal of Eukaryotic Microbiology | volume = 52 | pages = 399–451 | doi = 10.1111/j.
The capybara (Hydrochoerus hydrochaeris) is the largest rodent in the world. Also called chigüire, it is a member of the genus Hydrochoerus, of which the only other extant member is the lesser capybara (Hydrochoerus isthmius).
right|thumb|300px|An example of computer animation which is produced in the &quot;[[motion capture&quot; technique]]
Ceawlin (also spelled Ceaulin and Caelin, died ca. 593) was a King of Wessex.
Christchurch is the third largest urban area in New Zealand.
CDR|Carbon dioxide removal}}
thumb|right|300px|The cytosol is a crowded solution of many different types of molecules that fills much of the volume of cells.
Compound may refer to:
Citizenship is the status of a person recognized under the custom or law as being a legal member of a sovereign state or part of a nation.
(total of 21 fragments, taken on May 17, 1994)|style=padding: 4px 0 6px;}}
Ceres Brewery was a brewery company located in Aarhus, Denmark. It was part of Royal Unibrew.
A crew is a body or a class of people who work at a common activity, generally in a structured or hierarchical organization. A location in which a crew works is called a crewyard or a workyard.
CCD can stand for:
thumb|A specially developed CCD used for [[ultraviolet imaging in a wire-bonded package]]
In computing, memory refers to the computer hardware devices involved to store information for immediate use in a computer; it is synonymous with the term &quot;primary storage&quot;. Computer memory operates at a high speed, for example random-access memory (RAM), as a distinction from storage that provides slow-to-access program and data storage but offers higher capacities.
CDC  may refer to:
The Chandrasekhar  limit () is the maximum mass of a stable white dwarf star.  The limit was first indicated in papers published by Wilhelm Anderson and E.
Congregationalist polity, or Congregational polity, often known as congregationalism, is a system of church governance (&quot;ecclesiastical polity&quot;) in which every local church congregation is independent, ecclesiastically sovereign, or &quot;autonomous&quot;. Its first articulation in writing is the Cambridge Platform of 1648 in New England.
Cavalry (from French cavalerie, cf. cheval 'horse') or horsemen were soldiers or warriors who fought mounted on horseback.
The citric acid cycle (CAC) – also known as the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle or the Krebs cycle – is a series of chemical reactions used by all aerobic organisms to release stored  energy through the oxidation of acetyl-CoA derived from carbohydrates, fats, and proteins into carbon dioxide and chemical energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP).  In addition, the cycle provides precursors of certain amino acids, as well as the reducing agent NADH, that are used in numerous other biochemical reactions.
thumb|The EBG combat engineering vehicle, based on the [[AMX 30 tank, is used by the engineers of the French Army for a variety of missions.]]
Supported by:
Aquilegia (common names: granny's  bonnet or columbine) is a genus of about 60-70 speciesSunset Western Garden Book, 1995:606–607 of perennial plants that are found in meadows, woodlands, and at higher altitudes throughout the Northern Hemisphere, known for the spurred petals Puzey, J.R.
Cache (disambiguation) § Computing}}
This is a list of computer scientists, people who do work in computer science, in particular researchers and authors.
}}
The CRESU experiment () is an experiment investigating chemical reactions taking place at very low temperatures.
}}
The Charge of the Goddess (or Charge of the Star Goddess) is an inspirational text often used in the neopagan religion of Wicca. The Charge of the Goddess is recited during most rituals in which the Wiccan Priest/Priestess is expected to represent, and/or embody, the Goddess within the sacred circle, and is often spoken by the High Priest/Priestess after the ritual of Drawing Down the Moon.
In computability theory, the Church–Turing thesis (also known as computability thesis,Robert Soare, &quot;Turing Oracle Machines, Online Computing, and Three Displacements in Computability Theory&quot; the  Turing–Church thesis, the Church–Turing conjecture, Church's thesis, Church's conjecture, and Turing's thesis) is a hypothesis about the nature of computable functions. It states that a function on the natural numbers is computable by a human being following an algorithm, ignoring resource limitations, if and only if it is computable by a Turing machine.
Chomsky (, , , , &quot;from (Vyoska) Khomsk (nearby Brest, now Belarus)&quot;(be)) is a surname of Belarusian origin. Notable people with the surname include:
In computing, multitasking is a concept of performing multiple tasks (also known as processes) over a certain period of time by executing them concurrently.  New tasks start and interrupt already started ones before they have reached completion, instead of executing the tasks sequentially so each started task needs to reach its end before a new one is started.
The static compression ratio of an internal combustion engine or external combustion engine is a value that represents the ratio of the volume of its combustion chamber from its largest capacity to its smallest capacity. It is a fundamental specification for many common combustion engines.
right|thumb|In 1122, [[Henry V, Holy Roman Emperor entered into an agreement with Pope Calistus II known as the Concordat of Worms.]]
In formal language theory, a  context-free language (CFL) is a language generated by a context-free grammar (CFG).
CE, Ce or ce may refer to:
Cyborgs are a prominent staple in the science fiction genre. This article summarizes notable instances of cyborgs in fiction.
A Caesar salad is a salad of romaine lettuce and croutons dressed with parmesan cheese, lemon juice, olive oil, egg, Worcestershire sauce, garlic, and black pepper. It is traditionally prepared tableside.
&quot;O Lord Direct us&quot; (motto of City of London Corporation)
The clitoris ( or ) is a female sex organ present in mammals, ostriches and a limited number of other animals. In humans, the visible button-like portion is near the front junction of the labia minora (inner lips), above the opening of the urethra.
(City in a Garden), I Will
right|thumb|180px|Cyrix 6x86-P166.
Colon classification (CC) is a system of library classification developed by S. R.
A census is the procedure of systematically acquiring and recording information about the members of a given population. The term is used mostly in connection with national population and housing censuses; other common censuses include agriculture, business, and traffic censuses.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to chemistry:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to critical theory:
In computing, a context switch is the process of storing and restoring the state (more specifically, the execution context) of a process or thread so that execution can be resumed from the same point at a later time. This enables multiple processes to share a single CPU and is an essential feature of a multitasking operating system.
Carnatic usually refers to:
Chakra (IAST: C̣akra, meaning &quot;wheel, circle&quot;), sometimes spelled Cakra or Cakka, is any center of subtle body believed to be psychic-energy centers in the esoteric traditions of Indian religions.Chakra: Religion, Encyclopaedia Britannica
In biology, cloning is the process of producing similar populations of genetically identical individuals that occurs in nature when organisms such as bacteria, insects or plants reproduce asexually. Cloning in biotechnology refers to processes used to create copies of DNA fragments (molecular cloning), cells (cell cloning), or organisms.
Cortez may refer to: Cortes (surname)
In politics and history, a colony is a territory under the immediate political control of a state, distinct from the home territory of the sovereign.  For colonies in antiquity, city-states would often found their own colonies.
thumb|A long exposure photograph of moths around a floodlight, showing an exaggerated &quot;rod&quot; effect
A column or pillar in architecture and structural engineering is a structural element that transmits, through compression, the weight of the structure above to other structural elements below. In other words, a column is a compression member.
Carmilla is a Gothic novella by Joseph Sheridan Le Fanu and one of the early works of vampire fiction, predating Bram Stoker's Dracula (1897) by 26 years. First published as a serial in The Dark Blue (1871–72), the story is narrated by a young woman preyed upon by a female vampire named Carmilla, later revealed to be Mircalla, Countess Karnstein (Carmilla is an anagram of Mircalla).
Clitoridectomy or clitorectomy is the surgical removal, reduction, or partial removal of the clitoris. It is rarely used as a therapeutic medical procedure, such as when cancer has developed in or spread to the clitoris.
A cabal is a group of people united in some close design together, usually to promote their private views or interests in an ideology, state, or other community, often by intrigue, usually unbeknown to persons outside their group. The use of this term usually carries strong connotations of shadowy corners, back rooms and insidious influence.
thumb|250px|Cytochrome c with heme c.
–1996, –2011, 2016-present
Chromatin is a complex of macromolecules found in cells, consisting of DNA, protein, and RNA.  The primary functions of chromatin are 1) to package DNA into a more compact, denser shape, 2) to reinforce the DNA macromolecule to allow mitosis, 3) to prevent DNA damage, and 4) to control gene expression and DNA replication.
In the field of numerical analysis, the condition number of a function with respect to an argument measures how much the output value of the function can change for a small change in the input argument. This is used to measure how sensitive a function is to changes or errors in the input, and how much error in the output results from an error in the input.
Cheddar cheese is a relatively hard, off-white (or orange if spices such as annatto are added), sometimes sharp-tasting (i.e.
&quot;An Order in architecture is a certain assemblage of parts subject to uniform established proportions, regulated by the office that each part has to perform&quot;.Joseph Gwilt, The Encyclopedia of Architecture
Colin Kapp (3 April 1928 – 3 August 2007) was a British science fiction author.
Cathode rays (also called an electron beam or e-beam) are streams of electrons observed in vacuum tubes. If an evacuated glass tube is equipped with two electrodes and a voltage is applied, the glass behind of the positive electrode is observed to glow, due to electrons emitted from and traveling away from the cathode (the electrode connected to the negative terminal of the voltage supply).
thumb|Diagram of a [[copper cathode in a galvanic cell (e.g.
Chrominance (chroma or C for short) is the signal used in video systems to convey the color information of the picture, separately from the accompanying luma signal (or Y for short). Chrominance is usually represented as two color-difference components: U = B′ − Y′ (blue − luma) and V = R′ − Y′ (red − luma).
Chirality (handedness) is a property of asymmetry.
A campus is traditionally the land on which a college or university and related institutional buildings are situated. Usually a college campus includes libraries, lecture halls, residence halls, student centers or dining halls, and park-like settings.
A crossbow is a type of weapon based on the bow and consisting of a horizontal bow-like assembly mounted on a stock. It shoots projectiles called bolts or quarrels.
CCIR is a four-letter abbreviation that may stand for:
The Chalcedonian Definition (also called the Chalcedonian Creed) was adopted at the Council of Chalcedon in A.D.
In physics, a conservation law states that a particular measurable property of an isolated physical system does not change as the system evolves over time. Exact conservation laws include conservation of energy, conservation of linear momentum, conservation of angular momentum, and conservation of electric charge.
Chord may refer to:
(composer)
The Council of Chalcedon ( or )&quot;Chalcedon&quot;. Dictionary.
Canadian football () is a form of gridiron football played in Canada in which two teams of 12 players each compete for territorial control of a field of play  long and  wide attempting to advance a pointed prolate spheroid ball into the opposing team's scoring area (end zone).
The traditional Chinese calendar is a lunisolar calendar which reckons years, months and days according to astronomical phenomena.  the Chinese calendar is defined by GB/T 33661-2017 Calculation and promulgation of the Chinese calendar, which the Standardization Administration of the People's Republic of China issued on May 12, 2017.
Customer relationship management (CRM) is an approach to managing a company's interaction with current and potential customers. It uses data analysis about customers' history with a company and to improve business relationships with customers, specifically focusing on customer retention and ultimately driving sales growth.
Chuck-a-luck, also known as birdcage, is a game of chance played with three dice. It is derived from grand hazard and both can be considered a variant of sic bo, which is a popular casino game, although chuck-a-luck is more of a carnival game than a true casino game.
Computer music is the application of computing technology in music composition, to help human composers create new music or to have computers independently create music, such as with algorithmic composition programs. It includes the theory and application of new and existing computer software technologies and basic aspects of music, such as sound synthesis, digital signal processing, sound design, sonic diffusion, acoustics, and psychoacoustics.
Concepts are the fundamental building blocks of our thoughts and beliefs. They play an important role in all aspects of cognition.
Cell Cycle is a biweekly peer-reviewed scientific journal covering cell biology. The editor-in-chief is Mikhail V.
European Classical music has long relied on music competitions to provide a public forum that identifies the strongest players and contributes to the establishment of their professional careers. This is a list of current competitions in classical music, with each competition and reference link given only once.
Chlorophyll (also chlorophyl) is any of several closely related green pigments found in cyanobacteria and the chloroplasts of algae and plants. Its name is derived from the Greek words χλωρός, chloros (&quot;green&quot;) and φύλλον, phyllon (&quot;leaf&quot;).
The term carotene (also carotin, from the Latin carota, &quot;carrot&quot;Mosby’s Medical, Nursing and Allied Health Dictionary, Fourth Edition, Mosby-Year Book 1994, p. 273) is used for many related unsaturated hydrocarbon substances having the formula C40Hx, which are synthesized by plants but in general cannot be made by animals (with the exception of some aphids and spider mites which acquired the synthesizing genes from fungi).
Cimabue (; ;  1240 – 1302),Vasari, G. Lives of the Artists.
Corporatocracy , is a recent term used to refer to an economic and political system controlled by corporations or corporate interests. It is most often used today as a term to describe the current economic situation in a particular country, especially the United States.
The culture of Canada is a term that embodies the artistic, culinary, literary, humour, musical, political and social elements that are representative of Canada and Canadians. Throughout Canada's history, its culture has been influenced by European culture and traditions, especially British and French, and by its own indigenous cultures.
This is a list of notable companies based in Canada. For further information on the types of business entities in this country and their abbreviations, see &quot;Business entities in Canada&quot;.
The Cauchy distribution, named after Augustin Cauchy, is a continuous probability distribution.  It is also known, especially among physicists, as the Lorentz distribution (after Hendrik Lorentz), Cauchy–Lorentz distribution, Lorentz(ian) function, or Breit–Wigner distribution.
thumb|320px|Control systems play a critical role in [[space flight]]
,
Concubinage is an interpersonal and sexual relationship in which the couple are not or cannot be married. The inability to marry may be due to multiple factors such as differences in social rank  status, an existing marriage, religious prohibitions, professional ones (for example Roman soldiers) or a lack of recognition by appropriate authorities.
thumb|upright|[[Self-portrait, 1771, pastel, Musée du Louvre, Paris.]]
thumbnail|Crookes radiometer
Cranberries are a group of evergreen dwarf shrubs or trailing vines in the subgenus Oxycoccus of the genus Vaccinium. In Britain, cranberry may refer to the native species Vaccinium oxycoccos, while in North America, cranberry may refer to Vaccinium macrocarpon.
In computer science, code coverage is a measure used to describe the degree to which the source code of a program is executed when a particular test suite runs. A program with high code coverage, measured as a percentage, has had more of its source code executed during testing which suggests it has a lower chance of containing undetected software bugs compared to a program with low code coverage.
A cruiser is a type of warship.  The term has been in use for several hundred years, and has had different meanings throughout this period.
Chlamydia infection, often simply known as chlamydia, is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Most people who are infected have no symptoms.
Control theory is an interdisciplinary branch of engineering and computational mathematics that deals with the behavior of dynamical systems with inputs, and how their behavior is modified by feedback.  The usual objective of control theory is to control a system, often called the plant, so its output follows a desired control signal, called the reference, which may be a fixed or changing value.
}}
}}.
Late Carboniferous–Holocene
Aérospatiale/BAC Concorde () is a British-French turbojet-powered supersonic passenger jet airliner that was operated until 2003. It had a maximum speed over twice the speed of sound at Mach 2.
Canon}}
A computer mouse is a pointing device (hand control) that detects two-dimensional motion relative to a surface. This motion is typically translated into the motion of a pointer on a display, which allows a smooth control of the graphical user interface.
thumb|right|The international distinctive sign of civil defense, defined by the rules of [[international humanitarian law and to be used as a protective sign]]
;
In the United States, a community emergency response team (CERT) can refer to
A catapult is a ballistic device used to launch a projectile a great distance without the aid of explosive devices—particularly various types of ancient and medieval siege engines. In use since ancient times, the catapult has proven to be one of the most effective mechanisms during warfare.
Cinquain  is a class of poetic forms that employ a 5-line pattern.  Earlier used to describe any five-line form, it now refers to one of several forms that are defined by specific rules and guidelines.
thumb|Pa te Pou Ariki, Chief of the Takitumu tribe, [[Rarotonga (c. 1837)]]
right
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Cook Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Cook Islands, an associated state, takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy within a constitutional monarchy. The Queen of New Zealand, represented in the Cook Islands by the Queen's Representative, is the Head of State; the Chief Minister is the head of government and of a  multi-party system.
The economy of the Cook Islands, as in many other South Pacific nations, is hindered by the isolation of the country from foreign markets, lack of natural resources, periodic devastation from natural disasters, and inadequate infrastructure.
Like most countries and territories in Oceania, telecommunications in the Cook Islands is limited by its isolation and low population, with only one major television broadcasting station and six radio stations. However, most residents have a main line or mobile phone.
This article lists transport in the Cook Islands.
A computer file is a computer resource for recording data discretely in a computer storage device. Just as words can be written to paper, so can information be written to a computer file.
CID may refer to:
A clerihew () is a whimsical, four-line biographical poem invented by Edmund Clerihew Bentley. The first line is the name of the poem's subject, usually a famous person put in an absurd light, or revealing something unknown or spurious about them.
A civil war, also known as an intrastate war in polemology, is a war between organized groups within the same state or country.
List of cryptographers.
Chocolate  is a typically sweet, usually brown food preparation of Theobroma cacao seeds, roasted and ground. It is made in the form of a liquid, paste, or in a block, or used as a flavoring ingredient in other foods.
cornet
CAMP or cAMP may stand for:
CGMP is an initialism. It can refer to:
CSS is Cascading Style Sheets, a language used to describe the style of document presentations in web development.
}}
}}
Calreticulin also known as  calregulin, CRP55, CaBP3, calsequestrin-like protein, and endoplasmic reticulum resident protein 60 (ERp60) is a protein that in humans is encoded by the CALR gene.
A crannog (;  ;  ) is typically a partially or entirely artificial island, usually built in lakes, rivers and estuarine waters of Scotland and Ireland. Unlike the prehistoric pile dwellings around the Alps that were built on the shores and were inundated only later on, crannogs were built in the water, thus forming artificial islands.
A calendar date is a reference to a particular day represented within a calendar system. The calendar date allows the specific day to be identified.
thumb|Cist
In abstract algebra, the center of a group, , is the set of elements that commute with every element of . It is denoted , from German [meaning center.
Code-division multiple access (CDMA) is a channel access method used by various radio communication technologies.
thumb|right|300px||[[DansGuardian blocking whitehouse.com.
A chambered cairn is a burial monument, usually constructed during the Neolithic, consisting of a sizeable (usually stone) chamber around and over which a cairn of stones was constructed. Some chambered cairns are also passage-graves.
thumb|right|250px|A bottle of [[Canadian Club, a Canadian whisky]]
In linguistics, a collective noun is a word that refers to a collection of things taken as a whole. Most collective nouns in everyday speech are mundane and do not identify just one specific kind, such as the word &quot;group&quot;, which may apply to &quot;people&quot; in the phrase &quot;a group of people&quot; but may also correctly refer to &quot;dogs&quot;, in the phrase &quot;a group of dogs&quot;.
The carat (ct) is a unit of mass equal to 200 mg (0.2 g; 0.
The European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) was established on June 26, 1959, as a coordinating body for European state telecommunications and postal organizations. The acronym comes from the French version of its name Conférence européenne des administrations des postes et des télécommunications.
In physics and geometry, a catenary (, ) is the curve that an idealized hanging chain or cable assumes under its own weight when supported only at its ends.
The color temperature of a light source is the temperature of an ideal black-body radiator that radiates light of a color comparable to that of the light source. Color temperature is a characteristic of visible light that has important applications in lighting, photography, videography, publishing, manufacturing, astrophysics, horticulture, and other fields.
A cartoon is a type of two-dimensional illustration, possibly animated. While the specific definition has changed over time, modern usage refers to (a) a typically non-realistic or semi-realistic artistic style of drawing or painting, (b) an image or series of images intended for satire, caricature, or humor, or (c) a motion picture that relies on a sequence of illustrations for its animation.
The Chief Minister of the Northern Territory is the head of government of the Northern Territory. The office is the equivalent of a State Premier.
Chemotherapy (often abbreviated to chemo and sometimes CTX or CTx) is a category of cancer treatment that uses one or more anti-cancer drugs (chemotherapeutic agents) as part of a standardized chemotherapy regimen. Chemotherapy may be given with a curative intent (which almost always involves combinations of drugs), or it may aim to prolong life or to reduce symptoms (palliative chemotherapy).
Chinese historiography is the study of the techniques and sources used by historians to develop the recorded history of China.
In physics, cryogenics is the study of the production and behaviour of materials at very low temperatures.
C∗-algebras (pronounced &quot;C-star&quot;) are an area of research in functional analysis, a branch of mathematics.  A C*-algebra is a complex algebra A of continuous linear operators on a complex Hilbert space with two additional properties:
Commutation}}
A cairn is a human-made pile (or stack) of stones. The word cairn comes from the   (plural  ).
In mathematics, particularly in the area of abstract algebra known as group theory, a characteristic subgroup is a subgroup that is mapped to itself by every automorphism of the parent group.  Because every conjugation map is an inner automorphism, every characteristic subgroup is normal; though the converse is not guaranteed.
}}
A class action, class suit, or representative action is a type of lawsuit where one of the parties is a group of people who are represented collectively by a member of that group.  The class action originated in the United States and is still predominantly a U.
Contempt of court, often referred to simply as &quot;contempt&quot;, is the offence of being disobedient to or discourteous towards a court of law and its officers in the form of behavior that opposes or defies the authority, justice and dignity of the court. It manifests itself in willful disregard of or disrespect for the authority of a court of law, which is often behavior that is illegal because it does not obey or respect the rules of a law court.
}}
}}
Christiania may refer to:
Charles Xavier Joseph de Franque Ville d'Abancour (4 July 17589 September 1792) was a French statesman, minister to Louis XVI.Chambers Biographical Dictionary, , page 1
The Curtiss P-40 Warhawk is an American single-engined, single-seat, all-metal fighter and ground-attack aircraft that first flew in 1938. The P-40 design was a modification of the previous Curtiss P-36 Hawk which reduced development time and enabled a rapid entry into production and operational service.
thumb|[[Icon depicting Emperor Constantine (center) and the Fathers of the First Council of Nicaea (325) as holding the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed of 381]]
Claudius Aelianus (;Η φυσιογνωμία ενός λαού θεμελιών. Μύθοι για την Ελιά.
In Greek mythology, Callisto or Kallisto (;  ) was a nymph, or the daughter  of King Lycaon; the myth varies in such details.  She was one of the followers of Artemis, or Diana for the Romans, who attracted Zeus (Jupiter).
A cookie is a baked or cooked good that is small, flat and sweet. It usually contains flour, sugar and some type of oil or fat.
In computing, Common Gateway Interface (CGI) offers a standard protocol for web servers to execute programs that execute like Console applications (also called Command-line interface programs) running on a server that generates web pages dynamically.
Calypso may refer to:
In chemical physics and physical chemistry, chemical affinity is the electronic property by which dissimilar chemical species are capable of forming chemical compounds.  Chemical affinity can also refer to the tendency of an atom or compound to combine by chemical reaction with atoms or compounds of unlike composition.
Conspiracy may refer to:
The Cholistan Desert (}}; Punjabi: ), also locally known as Rohi (), sprawls  from Bahawalpur, Punjab, Pakistan and covers an area of . It adjoins the Thar Desert, extending over to Sindh and into India.
Constantine II (;Jones, pg. 223 January/February 316 – 340) was Roman Emperor from 337 to 340.
Constantine, son of Áed (Medieval Gaelic: Constantín mac Áeda; Modern Gaelic: Còiseam mac Aoidh, known in most modern regnal lists as Constantine II; died 952) was an early King of Scotland, known then by the Gaelic name Alba. The Kingdom of Alba, a name which first appears in Constantine's lifetime, was in northern Great Britain.
Patriarch Constantine of Constantinople}}
The Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) is an open specification (technical standard) developed by Microsoft and standardized by ISOISO/IEC 23271:2012 - Information technology -- Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) and ECMAStandard ECMA-335 - 6th edition (June 2012) that describes executable code and a runtime environment that allows multiple high-level languages to be used on different computer platforms without being rewritten for specific architectures. This implies it is platform agnostic.
(5th title)
Chinese classic texts or canonical texts (|s=|p=Zhōngguó gǔdiǎn diǎnjí}}) refers to the Chinese texts which originated before the imperial unification by the Qin dynasty in 221 BC, particularly the &quot;Four Books and Five Classics&quot; of the Neo-Confucian tradition, themselves a customary abridgment of the &quot;Thirteen Classics&quot;. All of these pre-Qin texts were written in classical Chinese.
A call centre or call center is a centralised office used for receiving or transmitting a large volume of requests by telephone. An inbound call centre is operated by a company to administer incoming product support or information enquiries from consumers.
thumb|300px|Archaeological cultures associated with [[Indo-Iranian migrations (after EIEC). The Andronovo, BMAC and Yaz cultures have often been associated with Indo-Iranian migrations.
Corrado Gini (May 23, 1884 – March 13, 1965) was an Italian statistician, demographer and sociologist who developed the Gini coefficient, a measure of the income inequality in a society. Gini was a proponent of organicism and applied it to nations.
300px|thumb|Flat-plane crankshaft (red), pistons (gray) in their cylinders (blue), and flywheel (black)
CNS may refer to:
The cell cycle or cell-division cycle is  the series of events that take place in a cell leading to its division and duplication of its DNA (DNA replication) to produce two daughter cells. In bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus, the cell cycle is divided into the B, C, and D periods.
Cartesian means of or relating to the French philosopher René Descartes—from his Latinized name Cartesius. It may refer to:
}}
Caste is a form of social stratification characterized by endogamy, hereditary transmission of a lifestyle which often includes an occupation, status in a hierarchy, and customary social interaction and exclusion. Although caste systems exist in various regions, its paradigmatic ethnographic example is the division of Indian society into rigid social groups, with roots in India's ancient history and persisting until today.
Creation may refer to:
}}
thumb|A Canchim bull
Within Christianity, there are a variety of views on the issues of sexual orientation and homosexuality. The many Christian denominations vary in their position, from condemning homosexual acts as sinful, through being divided on the issue, to seeing it as morally acceptable.
The Chadic languages are a branch of the Afroasiatic language family that is spoken in parts of the Sahel. They include 150 languages spoken across northern Nigeria, southern Niger, southern Chad, Central African Republic and northern Cameroon.
The Cushitic languages are a branch of the Afroasiatic language family. They are spoken primarily in the Horn of Africa (Somalia, Eritrea, Djibouti, and Ethiopia), as well as the Nile Valley (Sudan and Egypt) and parts of the African Great Lakes region (Tanzania and Kenya).
Chapter 11 is a chapter of Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which permits reorganization under the bankruptcy laws of the United States. Chapter 11 bankruptcy is available to every business, whether organized as a corporation, partnership or sole proprietorship, and to individuals, although it is most prominently used by corporate entities.
Conjugation or conjugate may refer to:
Controversy is a state of prolonged public dispute or debate, usually concerning a matter of conflicting opinion or point of view. The word was coined from the Latin controversia, as a composite of controversus – &quot;turned in an opposite direction,&quot; from contra – &quot;against&quot; – and vertere – to turn, or versus (see [hence, &quot;to turn against.
thumb|In this diagram of a duplicated chromosome, (2) identifies the centromere—the region that joins the two [[sister chromatids, or each half of the chromosome. In prophase of mitosis, specialized regions on centromeres called kinetochores attach chromosomes to spindle fibers.
Castello is the Italian word for castle. The Latin word Castellum means reservoir, water tank.
Common preference is an everyone wins situation in a number of places:
/ 3.1.
Cartography (from Greek χάρτης khartēs, &quot;papyrus, sheet of paper, map&quot;; and γράφειν graphein, &quot;write&quot;) is the study and practice of making maps. Combining science, aesthetics, and technique, cartography builds on the premise that reality can be modeled in ways that communicate spatial information effectively.
Consumption may refer to:
-ATPase]]
Colonialism is the policy of a nation seeking to extend or retain its authority over other people or territories.Webster's Encyclopedic Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language, 1989, p.
Colonial or The Colonial may refer to:
A cross is a geometrical figure consisting of two intersecting lines or bars, usually perpendicular to each other. The lines usually run vertically and horizontally.
In chemistry, a coordination complex consists of a central atom or ion, which is usually metallic and is called the coordination centre, and a surrounding array of bound molecules or ions, that are in turn known as ligands or complexing agents.Introduction to Coordination Chemistry by Geoffrey A.
The Telstar is a series of video game consoles produced by Coleco from 1976 to 1978. Starting with Telstar Pong clone based on General Instrument's AY-3-8500 chip in 1976, there were 14 consoles released in the Telstar branded series.
Conventional warfare is a form of warfare conducted by using conventional weapons and battlefield tactics between two or more states in open confrontation. The forces on each side are well-defined, and fight using weapons that primarily target the opponent's military.
Chauvinism is an exaggerated patriotism and a  belief in national superiority and glory. Whereas patriotism and nationalism may represent temperate pride, chauvinism is
Hypothetical types of biochemistry are forms of biochemistry speculated to be scientifically viable but not proven to exist at this time. The kinds of living organisms currently known on Earth all use carbon compounds for basic structural and metabolic functions, water as a solvent, and DNA or RNA to define and control their form.
A creation myth (or cosmogonic myth) is a symbolic narrative of how the world began and how people first came to inhabit it., &quot;Creation myths are symbolic stories describing how the universe and its inhabitants came to be.
thumb|A crucifix, a cross with a representation of Jesus' body, hangs on a wall
In physical cosmology, the Copernican principle, is an alternative name of the mediocrity principle, or the  principle of relativity, stating that  humans (the Earth, or the Solar system) are not privileged observers of the universe.
In genetics, complementary DNA (cDNA) is DNA synthesized from a single stranded RNA (e.g.
Cellular Digital Packet Data (CDPD) was a wide-area mobile data service which used unused bandwidth normally used by AMPS mobile phones between 800 and 900 MHz to transfer data. Speeds up to 19.
Chimera, chimaira, or chimaera may refer to:
A creature of statute (also known as creature of the state) is a legal entity, such as a corporation, created by statute. Creatures of statute may include municipalities and other artificial legal entities or relationships.
The General Conference on Weights and Measures ( – CGPM) is the senior of the three Inter-governmental organizations established in 1875 under the terms of the Metre Convention () to represent the interests of member states.  The treaty, which also set up two further bodies, the International Committee for Weights and Measures ( – CIPM) and the International Bureau of Weights and Measures ( –  BIPM), was drawn up to coordinate international metrology and to coordinate the development of the metric system.
Ulong}}
Titus Flavius Clemens (; c. 150 – c.
is a Latin philosophical proposition by  usually translated into English as &quot;I think, therefore I am&quot;. The phrase originally appeared in French as  }} in his Discourse on the Method, so as to reach a wider audience than Latin would have allowed.
&quot;United States Social Security Death Index,&quot; index, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.
The centimetre–gram–second system of units (abbreviated CGS or cgs) is a variant of the metric system based on the centimetre as the unit of length, the gram as the unit of mass, and the second as the unit of time. All CGS mechanical units are unambiguously derived from these three base units, but there are several different ways of extending the CGS system to cover electromagnetism.
thumb|right|180px|[[Stained glass window of the Confession of Peter in [(American Standard)/Luke#9:20|Luke 9:20]: &quot;But who do you say that I am?&quot; Peter answered: &quot;The Christ of God&quot;.
In legal terminology, a complaint is any formal legal document that sets out the facts and legal reasons (see: cause of action) that the filing party or parties (the plaintiff(s)) believes are sufficient to support a claim against the party or parties against whom the claim is brought (the defendant(s)) that entitles the plaintiff(s) to a remedy (either money damages or injunctive relief). For example, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP) that govern civil litigation in United States courts provide that a civil action is commenced with the filing or service of a pleading called a complaint.
Complexity describes the behaviour of a system or model whose components interact in multiple ways and follow local rules, meaning there is no reasonable higher instruction to define the various possible interactions.
thumb|right|200px|[[Allegory of chastity by Hans Memling]]
The cosmic microwave background (CMB) is electromagnetic radiation left over from an early stage of the universe in Big Bang cosmology. In older literature, the CMB is also variously known as cosmic microwave background radiation (CMBR) or &quot;relic radiation&quot;.
Comparative law is the study of differences and similarities between the law of different countries.  More specifically, it involves study of the different legal &quot;systems&quot; (or &quot;families&quot;) in existence in the world, including the common law, the civil law, socialist law, Canon law, Jewish Law, Islamic law, Hindu law, and Chinese law.
A CD or compact disc is a thin plastic silvery disc for audio recordings.
Cyberspace is the notional environment in which communication over computer networks occurs.http://www.
Cyril of Alexandria (; c. 376 – 444) was the Patriarch of Alexandria from 412 to 444.
313 AD
or  English translation: &quot;Establishing&quot; or &quot;Dedication&quot; (of the Temple in Jerusalem)
}}
In object-oriented programming, a class is an extensible program-code-template for creating objects, providing initial values for state (member variables) and implementations of behavior (member functions or methods).}} In many languages, the class name is used as the name for the class (the template itself), the name for the default constructor of the class (a subroutine that creates objects), and as the type of objects generated by instantiating the class; these distinct concepts are easily conflated.
Canterbury is a city located in the county of Kent in southeast England. It may also refer to:
Computer security, also known as cyber security or IT security, is the protection of computer systems from the theft or damage to their hardware, software or information, as well as from disruption or misdirection of the services they provide.
A centaur (; , Kéntauros, ), or occasionally hippocentaur, is a mythological creature with the upper body of a human and the lower body of a horse.Webster's Third New International Dictionary, G.
}}
A county town in the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Jamaica is usually the location of administrative or judicial functions within the county, or it has been established over time as the de facto main town of a county.  The concept of a county town eventually became detached from its original meaning of where the county administration or county hall is based.
The Constitution of Canada  is the supreme law in Canada;  the country's constitution is an amalgamation of codified acts and uncodified traditions and conventions. Canada is one of the oldest constitutional democracies in the world.
Crochet (; ) is a process of creating fabric by interlocking loops of yarn, thread, or strands of other materials using a crochet hook. The name is derived from the French term crochet, meaning 'small hook'.
An electromagnetic coil is an electrical conductor such as a wire in the shape of a [spiral] or [[helix.  Electromagnetic coils are used in electrical engineering, in applications where electric currents interact with magnetic fields, in devices such as inductors, electromagnets, transformers, and sensor coils.
}}
-
In geometry and algebra, a real number  is constructible if and only if, given a line segment of unit length, a line segment of length || can be constructed with compass and straightedge in a finite number of steps.John A.
In mathematics, the classification of the finite simple groups is a theorem stating that every finite simple group belongs to one of four broad classes described below. These groups can be seen as the basic building blocks of all finite groups, in a way reminiscent of the way the prime numbers are the basic building blocks of the natural numbers.
The Chalcolithic (;The New Oxford Dictionary of English (1998) , p. 301: &quot;Chalcolithic&quot;  khalkós, &quot;copper&quot; and  líthos, &quot;stone&quot;) or Copper Age, also known as the Eneolithic or Aeneolithic (from Latin [&quot;of copper]&quot;), was a period roughly from 3500 to 1700 BC in the development of human technology, before it was discovered that adding [[tin to copper formed the harder bronze, leading to the Bronze Age.
Laws restricting, regulating, or banning circumcision, some dating back to ancient times, have been enacted in many countries and communities. In a number of modern states, circumcision is presumed to be legal, but laws pertaining to assault or child custody have been applied in cases involving circumcision.
Called to Common Mission is an agreement between The Episcopal Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America (ELCA), establishing full communion between them. It was ratified by the ELCA in 1999, the ECUSA in 2000, after the narrow failure of a previous agreement.
thumb|233px|right|Context menu from [[Mozilla Firefox, shown in the context of a web page]]
In Judaism, &quot;chosenness&quot; is the belief that the Jews, via descent from the ancient Israelites, are the chosen people, i.e.
Christian persecution could refer to:
right|thumb|280px|Chaparral, Santa Ynez Mountains, near Santa Barbara, California
CJD can mean:
Clinker may refer to:
A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the middle third of the 19th century. They were fast, yacht-like vessels, with three masts and a square rig.
Cold fusion is a hypothesized type of nuclear reaction that would occur at, or near, room temperature. This is compared with the &quot;hot&quot; fusion which takes place naturally within stars, under immense pressure and at temperatures of millions of degrees, and distinguished from muon-catalyzed fusion.
Cobbler(s) may refer to:
The CANDU, for CANada Deuterium Uranium, is a Canadian pressurized heavy water reactor design used to generate electric power. The acronym refers to its deuterium oxide (heavy water) moderator and its use of (originally, natural) uranium fuel.
Cuitláhuac (, ) (c. 1476 – 1520)For year of birth, see entry for &quot;CUITLAHUAC&quot;, Dictionnaire de la langue nahuatl classique (Wimmer 2006).
Radar scattering cross section}}
Christian mythology is the body of myths associated with Christianity. The term encompasses a broad variety of stories and legends.
A company is a group of more than one persons to carry out an enterprise and so a form of business organization.
A corporation is a company or group of people authorized to act as a single entity (legally a person) and recognized as such in law. Early incorporated entities were established by charter (i.
Collation is the assembly of written information into a standard order. Many systems of collation are based on numerical order or alphabetical order, or extensions and combinations thereof.
Civil Rights Act may refer to several acts in the history of civil rights in the United States, including:
Cola is a sweetened, carbonated soft drink, derived from drinks that contain caffeine from the kola nut and non-cocaine derivatives from coca leaves, flavored with vanilla and other ingredients. Most colas now use other flavoring (and caffeinating) ingredients with a similar taste.
The Capability Maturity Model (CMM)CMM is a registered service mark of Carnegie Mellon University (CMU). is a development model created after a study of data collected from organizations that contracted with the U.
Celebes may refer to:
Christianity is rooted in Second Temple Judaism, but the two religions diverged in the first centuries of the Christian Era. Christianity emphasizes correct belief (or orthodoxy), focusing on the New Covenant as mediated through Jesus Christ, as recorded in the New Testament.
A chronicle (, from Greek , from , chronos, &quot;time&quot;) is a historical account of facts and events ranged in chronological order, as in a time line. Typically, equal weight is given for historically important events and local events, the purpose being the recording of events that occurred, seen from the perspective of the chronicler.
In chemistry, concentration is the abundance of a constituent divided by the total volume of a mixture. Several types of mathematical description can be distinguished: mass concentration, molar concentration, number concentration, and volume concentration.
}}
The Cutter Expansive Classification system is a library classification system devised by Charles Ammi Cutter. The system was the basis for the top categories of the Library of Congress Classification.
Muhtar Cem Karaca (5 April 1945 – 8 February 2004) was a prominent Turkish rock musician and one of the most important figures in the Anatolian rock movement.Barchard, David.
Convolute}}
Calico (in British usage since 1505) is a plain-woven textile made from unbleached and often not fully processed cotton. It may contain unseparated husk parts, for example.
Calorimetry is the science or act of measuring changes in state variables of a body for the purpose of deriving the heat transfer associated with changes of its state due, for example, to chemical reactions, physical changes, or phase transitions under specified constraints.   Calorimetry is performed with a calorimeter.
A concept album is an album in which its tracks hold a larger purpose or meaning collectively than they do individually. This is typically achieved through a single central narrative or theme, which can be instrumental, compositional, or lyrical.
The cro-hook, is a special double-ended crochet hook used to make double-sided crochet.
The clavichord is a European stringed keyboard instrument that was used largely in the late Medieval, through the Renaissance, Baroque and Classical eras. Historically, it was mostly used as a practice instrument and as an aid to composition, not being loud enough for larger performances.
A centripetal force (from Latin centrum, &quot;center&quot; and petere, &quot;to seek&quot; Extract of page 291) is a force that makes a body follow a curved path. Its direction is always orthogonal to the motion of the body and towards the fixed point of the instantaneous center of curvature of the path.
Commodore generally refers to Commodore (rank), a naval rank. It may also refer to:
Conditioning may refer to:
A checksum is a small-sized datum derived from a block of digital data for the purpose of detecting errors which may have been introduced during its transmission or storage.  It is usually applied to an installation file after it is received from the download server.
Cultural evolution is cultural change viewed from an evolutionary perspective.
Computational complexity theory is a branch of the theory of computation in theoretical computer science that focuses on classifying computational problems according to their inherent difficulty, and relating those classes to each other. A computational problem is understood to be a task that is in principle amenable to being solved by a computer, which is equivalent to stating that the problem may be solved by mechanical application of mathematical steps, such as an algorithm.
Cadence may refer to:
Camelot is a castle and court associated with the legendary King Arthur. Absent in the early Arthurian material, Camelot first appeared in 12th-century French romances and, after the Lancelot-Grail cycle, eventually came to be described as the fantastic capital of Arthur's realm and a symbol of the Arthurian world.
Chemical evolution may refer to:
In quantum field theory, the Casimir effect and the Casimir–Polder force are physical forces arising from a quantized field. They are named after the Dutch physicist Hendrik Casimir who predicted them in 1948.
A coin is a small, flat, (usually) round piece of metal or plastic used primarily as a medium of exchange or legal tender. They are standardized in weight, and produced in large quantities at a mint in order to facilitate trade.
College of the City of New York may refer to:
right|thumb|300px|The orbits of various cubewanos compared to the orbit of [[Neptune (blue) and Pluto (pink)]]
The foreign policy of the United States is the way in which it interacts with foreign nations and sets standards of interaction for its organizations, corporations and system citizens of the United States.
Christmas in Poland is a major annual celebration, as in most countries of the Christian world. The observance of Christmas developed gradually over the centuries, beginning in ancient times; combining old pagan customs with the religious ones introduced after the Christianization of Poland by the Catholic Church.
}}
Comic fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy that is primarily humorous in intent and tone. Usually set in imaginary worlds, comic fantasy often includes puns on and parodies of other works of fantasy.
The history of the Soviet Union from 1982 through 1991 spans the period from Leonid Brezhnev's death and funeral until the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Due to the years of Soviet military buildup at the expense of domestic development, economic growth stagnated .
or
Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Commodore is a naval rank used in many navies that is superior to a navy captain, but below a rear admiral. Non-English-speaking nations often use the rank of flotilla admiral or counter admiral or senior captain as an equivalent, although counter admiral may also correspond to rear admiral.
In the field of complex analysis in mathematics, the Cauchy–Riemann equations, named after Augustin Cauchy and Bernhard Riemann, consist of a system of two partial differential equations which, together with certain continuity and differentiability criteria, form a necessary and sufficient condition for a complex function to be complex differentiable, that is, holomorphic.  This system of equations first appeared in the work of Jean le Rond d'Alembert .
The Christadelphians () are a millenarian Christian group who hold a view of Biblical Unitarianism. There are approximately 50,000 Christadelphians in around 120 countries.
Cable television is a system of delivering television programming to paying subscribers via radio frequency (RF) signals transmitted through coaxial cables, or in more recent systems, light pulses through fiber-optic cables. This contrasts with broadcast television, in which the television signal is transmitted over the air by radio waves and received by a television antenna attached to the television.
}}
A caldera is a large cauldron-like depression that forms following the evacuation of a magma chamber/reservoir. When large volumes of magma are erupted over a short time period, structural support for the crust above the magma chamber is lost.
An electronic calculator is a small, portable electronic device used to perform calculations, ranging from basic arithmetic to complex mathematics.
thumb|300px|right|Antique crank-operated cash register
Chronometer or chronoscope may refer to:
Processor design is the design engineering task of creating a microprocessor, a component of computer hardware. It is a subfield of electronics engineering and computer engineering.
Carinatae is the group of all birds and their extinct relatives to possess a keel, or &quot;carina&quot;, on the underside of the breastbone used to anchor large flight muscles.
When used to refer to any generic alcoholic mixed drink, cocktail may mean any beverage that contains two or more ingredients if at least one of those ingredients contains alcohol.
The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria is an Oriental Orthodox Christian church based in Egypt, Northeast Africa and the Middle East. ti.
}}
CIT or cit may refer to:
The Code of Hammurabi is a well-preserved Babylonian code of law of ancient Mesopotamia, dating back to about 1754 BC (Middle Chronology).  It is one of the oldest deciphered writings of significant length in the world.
The Cuba Libre (; , &quot;Free Cuba&quot;) is a caffeinated alcoholic cocktail made of cola, lime, and dark or light rum. This cocktail is often referred to as a Rum and Coke in the United States, Canada, the UK, Ireland, India, Singapore, Australia and New Zealand where the lime juice may or may not be included.
The weak and the strong cosmic censorship hypotheses are two mathematical conjectures about the structure of singularities arising in general relativity.
The word catholic (with lowercase c; derived via Late Latin catholicus, from the Greek adjective  (katholikos), meaning &quot;universal&quot;(cf. Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon)) comes from the Greek phrase  (katholou), meaning &quot;on the whole&quot;, &quot;according to the whole&quot; or &quot;in general&quot;, and is a combination of the Greek words  meaning &quot;about&quot; and  meaning &quot;whole&quot;.
Clabbers is a game played by tournament Scrabble players for fun, or occasionally at Scrabble variant tournaments.  The name derives from the fact that the words CLABBERS and SCRABBLE form an anagram pair.
Canopus may refer to:
Corum Jhaelen Irsei (&quot;the Prince in the Scarlet Robe&quot;) is the name of a fictional fantasy hero in a series of two trilogies written by author Michael Moorcock.
Cumberland is one of the historic counties of England.
Capella, meaning &quot;small she goat&quot; in classical Latin, and chapel in medieval Latin, may refer to:
Complex instruction set computing (CISC ) is a processor design, where single  instructions can execute several low-level operations (such as a load from memory, an arithmetic operation, and a memory store) or are capable of multi-step operations or addressing modes within single instructions. The term was retroactively coined in contrast to reduced instruction set computer (RISC) and has therefore become something of an umbrella term for everything that is not RISC, from large and complex mainframe computers to simplistic microcontrollers where memory load and store operations are not separated from arithmetic instructions.
CISC may refer to:
Early Eocene – Present
thumb|350px|A [[woodcut from William Caxton's second edition of The Canterbury Tales printed in 1483]]
Catharism (; from the Greek: , katharoi, &quot;the pure [ones]&quot;). was a Christian dualist or Gnostic revival movement that thrived in some areas of Southern Europe, particularly northern Italy and southern France, between the 12th and 14th centuries.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a clear, colorless body fluid found in the brain and spinal cord. It is produced in the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain.
Cordial may refer to:
In science and history, consilience (also convergence of evidence or concordance of evidence) refers to the principle that evidence from independent, unrelated sources can &quot;converge&quot; to strong conclusions. That is, when multiple sources of evidence are in agreement, the conclusion can be very strong even when none of the individual sources of evidence is significantly so on its own.
Conciliation is an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process whereby the parties to a dispute use a conciliator, who meets with the parties both separately and together in an attempt to resolve their differences. They do this by lowering tensions, improving communications, interpreting issues, encouraging parties to explore potential solutions and assisting parties in finding a mutually acceptable outcome.
Cognitivism may refer to:
A counter circuit is usually constructed of a number of flip-flops connected in cascade. Counters are a very widely used component in digital circuits, and are manufactured as separate integrated circuits and  also incorporated as parts of larger integrated circuits.
Cervical mucus method may refer to a specific method of fertility awareness or natural family planning:
Coleridge may refer to:
In linguistics, the comparative method is a technique for studying the development of languages by performing a feature-by-feature comparison of two or more languages with common descent from a shared ancestor, in order to extrapolate back to infer the properties of that ancestor. The comparative method may be contrasted with the method of internal reconstruction, in which the internal development of a single language is inferred by the analysis of features within that language..
A centimetre (international spelling as used by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures; symbol cm) or centimeter (American spelling) is a unit of length in the metric system, equal to one hundredth of a metre, centi being the SI prefix for a factor of . The centimetre was the base unit of length in the now deprecated centimetre–gram–second (CGS) system of units.
Central Coast may refer to:
Charles Jones}}
Costume is the distinctive style of dress of an individual or group that reflects their class, gender, profession, ethnicity, nationality, activity or epoch.
thumb|right|Cable Car in San Francisco - double-ended car (California line)
In linguistics, creaky voice (sometimes called laryngealisation, pulse phonation, vocal fry, or glottal fry) is a special kind of phonation in which the arytenoid cartilages in the larynx are drawn together; as a result, the vocal folds are compressed rather tightly, becoming relatively slack and compact. They normally vibrate irregularly at 20–50 pulses per second, about two octaves below the frequency of normal voicing, and the airflow through the glottis is very slow.
A computer monitor is an output device which displays the information in pictorial form. A monitor usually comprises the display device, circuitry, casing, and power supply.
ClearType is  Microsoft's implementation of subpixel rendering technology in rendering text in a font system. ClearType attempts to improve the appearance of text on certain types of computer display screens by sacrificing color fidelity for additional intensity variation.
In cell biology a centriole is a cylindrical cell structure composed mainly of a protein called tubulin that is found in most eukaryotic cells. An associated pair of centrioles, surrounded by a shapeless mass of dense material, called the pericentriolar material, or PCM, makes up a compound structure called a centrosome.
Creation science or scientific creationism is a branch of creationism that claims to provide scientific support for the Genesis creation narrative in the Book of Genesis and disprove or reexplain the scientific facts, theories and scientific paradigms about geology,
Cartography is the study of map making and cartographers are map makers.
thumb|270px|Rock carving in Cirth in the [[Sydney Harbour National Park, dating back to the 1980s at least]]
The Lockheed C-130 Hercules is a four-engine turboprop military transport aircraft designed and built originally by Lockheed (now Lockheed Martin). Capable of using unprepared runways for takeoffs and landings, the C-130 was originally designed as a troop, medevac, and cargo transport aircraft.
A Cartesian coordinate system is a coordinate system that specifies each point uniquely in a plane by a pair of numerical coordinates, which are the signed distances to the point from two fixed perpendicular directed lines, measured in the same unit of length. Each reference line is called a coordinate axis or just axis of the system, and the point where they meet is its origin, at ordered pair .
)
The Chinese remainder theorem is a theorem of number theory, which states that, if one knows the remainders of the Euclidean division of an integer  by several integers, then one can determine uniquely the remainder of the division of  by the product of these integers, under the condition that the divisors are pairwise coprime.
thumb|A female Oriental latrine fly ([[Chrysomya megacephala) feeds on feces.]]
thumb|upright|12AE10 Compactron tube (a dual pentode), made by GE
In number theory, a Carmichael number is a composite number n which satisfies the modular arithmetic congruence relation:
a.k.
A cyclops is a one-eyed monster in Greek mythology.
The Christian countercult movement or Christian anti-cult movement is a social movement of certain  Protestant evangelical and fundamentalist and other Christian ministries (&quot;discernment ministries&quot;Robert M. Bowman, Orthodoxy and Heresy: A Biblical Guide to Doctrinal Discernment, Grand Rapids: Baker Book House, 1992, pp.
}}
→ 1
Clairvoyance (/klɛɹˈvɔɪəns/ or /klɛəˈvɔɪəns/) (from French clair meaning &quot;clear&quot; and voyance meaning &quot;vision&quot;) is the alleged ability to gain information about an object, person, location or physical event through extrasensory perception.Britannica Online Encyclopedia, Retrieved 2007-10-07.
Chiropractic is a form of alternative medicine mostly concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of mechanical disorders of the musculoskeletal system, especially the spine. Proponents claim that such disorders affect general health via the nervous system.
200px|thumb|Lattice structure of [[titanium carbide.]]
border
(since 2013)
CPSU  can refer to:
Conrad II may refer to:
thumb|right|Landscape.
A Christmas tree is a decorated tree, usually an evergreen conifer such as spruce, pine, or fir or an artificial tree of similar appearance, associated with the celebration of Christmas. The modern Christmas tree was developed in early modern Germany (where it is today called Weihnachtsbaum or Christbaum),
A carrier battle group (CVBG) consists of an aircraft carrier (designated CV) and its large number of escorts, together defining the group. The first naval task forces built around carriers appeared just prior to and during World War II.
The Boeing Vertol CH-46 Sea Knight is a medium-lift tandem rotor transport helicopter powered by twin turboshaft aircraft engines. It was used by the United States Marine Corps (USMC) to provide all-weather, day-or-night assault transport of combat troops, supplies and equipment until it was replaced by the MV-22 Osprey.
border
The Costa Smeralda (, , ) is a coastal area and tourist destination in northern Sardinia, Italy, with a length of some 20 km, although the term originally designated only a small stretch in the commune of Arzachena. With white sand beaches, golf clubs, private jet and helicopter services, and exclusive hotels, the area has drawn celebrities, business leaders, and other affluent visitors.
A Chianti wine  is any wine produced in the Chianti region, in central Tuscany, Italy. It was historically associated with a squat bottle enclosed in a straw basket, called a fiasco (&quot;flask&quot;; pl.
In physics, the Coriolis force is an inertial force Extract of page 208 that acts on objects that are in motion relative to a rotating reference frame. In a reference frame with clockwise rotation, the force acts to the left of the motion of the object.
thumb|300px|Location of Challenger Deep within the [[Mariana Trench and Western Pacific Ocean]]
The current Political Constitution of the Republic of Chile, approved by Chilean voters in a controversial plebiscite on September 11, 1980, under the military dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet, partially effective March 11, 1981, fully effective 11 March 1990 and amended considerably on August 17, 1989 (via referendum) and on September 22, 2005 (legislatively), and also in 1991, 1994, 1997, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, replaced the earlier constitution of 1925. It is Chile's eighth constitution.
Crystallography is the experimental science of determining the arrangement of atoms in the crystalline solids  (see crystal structure). The word &quot;crystallography&quot; derives from the Greek words crystallon &quot;cold drop, frozen drop&quot;, with its meaning extending to all solids with some degree of transparency, and graphein &quot;to write&quot;.
Clone or Clones or The Clone may refer to:
Critical psychology is a perspective on psychology that draws extensively on critical theory. Critical psychology challenges mainstream psychology and attempts to apply psychological understandings in more progressive ways, often looking towards social change as a means of preventing and treating psychopathology.
thumb|Depiction of crossfire
CNO is a three-letter initialism. It can mean:
thumb|right|275px|A cruising sailboat anchored in the [[San Blas Islands, in Panama.]]
Cavitation is the formation of vapour cavities in a liquid, small liquid-free zones (&quot;bubbles&quot; or &quot;voids&quot;), that are the consequence of forces acting upon the liquid. It usually occurs when a liquid is subjected to rapid changes of pressure that cause the formation of cavities in the liquid where the pressure is relatively low.
thumb|right|300px|The &quot;Cernunnos&quot; type [[antlered figure or &quot;horned god&quot;, on the Gundestrup Cauldron, on display, at the National Museum of Denmark in Copenhagen]]
Click consonants, or clicks, are speech sounds that occur as consonants in many languages of Southern Africa and in three languages of East Africa. Examples familiar to English-speakers are the tut-tut (British spelling) or tsk!
The Cider House Rules (1985) is John Irving's sixth published novel, and was later adapted into a film (1999) and a stage play by Peter Parnell. The story is about a young man, Homer Wells, growing up under the guidance of Dr.
A consumer is a person or organization that uses economic services or commodities.
Mammillaria|and|MelocactusMelocactus|and|OpuntiaOpuntia|other uses|Cactus (disambiguation)|the landmark book on cactus|The CactaceaeThe Cactaceae}}
CCC may refer to:
The Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) was a public work relief program that operated from 1933 to 1942 in the United States for unemployed, unmarried men from relief families as part of the New Deal. Originally for young men ages 18–25, it was eventually expanded to young men ages 17–28.
Colin Maclaurin (; ; 1 February 1698 – 14 June 1746)http://www-groups.dcs.
Celestial globes show the apparent positions of the stars in the sky. They omit the Sun, Moon and planets because the positions of these bodies vary relative to those of the stars, but the ecliptic, along which the Sun moves, is indicated.
A Covenant-breaker or the act of Covenant-breaking is a term used by Bahá'ís to refer to a form of Excommunication. Being declared a Covenant-breaker is done by the head of the Faith — which is the Universal House of Justice, which has nine members and is the governing body of the Bahá'ís since 1963.
Berlin, Germany
Convention}}
In mathematical analysis, a metric space M is called complete (or a Cauchy space) if every Cauchy sequence of points in M has a limit that is also in M or, alternatively, if every Cauchy sequence in M converges in M.
A chain reaction is a sequence of reactions where a reactive product or by-product causes additional reactions to take place. In a chain reaction, positive feedback leads to a self-amplifying chain of events.
300px|thumb|A caddy plies his trade.
A compound turbine is a steam turbine in which there are two casings, a high-pressure casing and a low-pressure casing, operating in concert to extract work from a single source of steam. The steam is partially expanded in the high-pressure casing, then exhausted to the low-pressure casing.
Corona (perianth)|other uses|Corona (disambiguation)}}
A planned economy is a type of economic system where investment and the allocation of capital goods is determined by an economy-wide plan of production. A planned economy may be based on centralized,  decentralized or participatory forms of economic planning.
Charcot disease}}
Central pontine myelinolysis (CPM), also known as osmotic demyelination syndrome or central pontine demyelination, is a neurological disorder caused by severe damage of the myelin sheath of nerve cells in the area of the brainstem termed the pons, predominately of iatrogenic, treatment-induced cause. It is characterized by acute paralysis,  dysphagia (difficulty swallowing), and dysarthria (difficulty speaking), and other neurological symptoms.
Crystalline solids exhibit a periodic crystal structure. The positions of atoms or molecules occur on repeating fixed distances, determined by the unit cell parameters.
In formal language theory, a context-free grammar G is said to be in Chomsky normal form (first described by Noam Chomsky) if all of its production rules are of the form:
Dance is a performing art form consisting of purposefully selected sequences of human movement. This movement has aesthetic and symbolic value, and is acknowledged as dance by performers and observers within a particular culture.
In physical geography, a dune is a hill of loose sand built by aeolian processes (wind) or the flow of water. Dunes occur in different shapes and sizes, formed by interaction with the flow of air or water.
A number of games have been published which are based on the Dune universe created by Frank Herbert.
This is a list of the characters who appear in the novels of the fictional Dune universe, created by Frank Herbert and later expanded by Brian Herbert and Kevin J. Anderson.
}}
The derivative of a function of a real variable measures the sensitivity to change of the function (output) value with respect to a change in its argument (input value). Derivatives are a fundamental tool of calculus.
}}
1711}}
Blue Hen State; The Diamond State
A dictionary is a collection of words in one or more specific languages, often arranged alphabetically (or by radical and stroke for ideographic languages), which may include information on definitions, usage, etymologies, phonetics, pronunciations, translation, etc.Webster's New World College Dictionary, Fourth Edition, 2002 or a book of words in one language with their equivalents in another, sometimes known as a lexicon.
thumb|A [[space-filling model of the diatomic molecule dinitrogen, N2]]
A duopoly (from Greek δύο, duo (two) + πωλεῖν, polein (to sell)) is a form of oligopoly where only two sellers exist in one market. In practice, the term is also used where two firms have dominant control over a market.
*1977–1979 (AD&amp;D)
Double jeopardy is a procedural defence that prevents an accused person from being tried again on the same (or similar) charges and on the same facts, following a valid acquittal or conviction.
Disbarment is the removal of a lawyer from a bar association or the practice of law, thus revoking his or her law license or admission to practice law. Disbarment is usually a punishment for unethical or criminal conduct.
&quot;Dog tags&quot; is an informal but common term for the identification tags worn by military personnel. The tags are primarily used for the identification of dead and wounded soldiers; they have personal information about the soldiers and convey essential basic medical information, such as blood type and history of inoculations.
The drum is a member of the percussion group of musical instruments. In the Hornbostel-Sachs classification system, it is a membranophone.
hardcore punk
Deoxyribonucleic acid (; DNA) is a molecule that carries the genetic instructions used in the growth, development, functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many viruses. DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are nucleic acids; alongside proteins, lipids and complex carbohydrates (polysaccharides), they are one of the four major types of macromolecules that are essential for all known forms of life.
The Kennedy family is an American family that has been prominent in American politics, public service, and business during the 20th and 21st centuries. At least one Kennedy family member held federal elective office in every year between 1947 and 2011, and then from 2013 onwards, a span of time comprising more than a quarter of the nation's existence.
Deflation refers to a decrease in the general price level, the opposite of inflation.
Democrat}}
Deduction and induction may refer to:
In logic and mathematics, or is the truth-functional operator of (inclusive) disjunction, also known as alternation; the or of a set of operands is true if and only if one or more of its operands is true.  The logical connective that represents this operator is typically written as ∨ or +.
In classical logic, disjunctive syllogism (historically known as modus tollendo ponens) is a valid argument form  which is a syllogism having a disjunctive statement for one of its premises.HurleyCopi and Cohen
A definition is a statement of the meaning of a term (a word, phrase, or other set of symbols).Bickenbach, Jerome E.
Disruption or Disruptive may refer to:
Darwin most often refers to:
The Donegal fiddle tradition is the way of playing the fiddle that is traditional in County Donegal, Ireland. It is one of the distinct fiddle traditions within Irish traditional music.
thumb|A view of the break-action of a typical side-by-side double-barreled shotgun, with the [[Anson &amp; Deeley boxlock action open and the extractor visible. The lever and the safety catch can also be clearly seen.
Dessert () is a confectionery course that concludes a main meal. The course usually consists of sweet foods and beverages, such as dessert wine or liqueurs, but may include coffee, cheeses, nuts, or other savory items.
The Data Encryption Standard (DES,  or ) is a symmetric-key algorithm for the encryption of electronic data. Although now considered insecure, it was highly influential in the advancement of modern cryptography.
A double-hulled tanker refers to an oil tanker which has a double hull. They reduce the likelihood of leaks occurring than in single-hulled tankers, and their ability to prevent or reduce oil spills led to double hulls being standardized for oil tankers and other types of ships including by the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships or MARPOL Convention.
A drink or beverage is a liquid intended for human consumption.
}}
In mathematics, any vector space V has a corresponding dual vector space (or just dual space for short) consisting of all linear functionals on V, together with the vector space structure of pointwise addition and scalar multiplication by constants.
}}
In computing, a data warehouse (DW or DWH), also known as an enterprise data warehouse (EDW), is a system used for reporting and data analysis, and is considered a core component of business intelligence.Dedić, N.
A disperser is a one-sided extractor.Ronen Shaltiel.
}}
Dungeon Master may mean:
Default may refer to:
Deposition  may refer to:
-
In geometry, a diameter of a circle is any straight line segment that passes through the center of the circle and whose endpoints lie on the circle. It can also be defined as the longest chord of the circle.
The  direct examination or examination-in-chief is one stage in the process of adducing evidence from witnesses in a court of law. Direct examination is the questioning of a witness by the party who called him or her, in a trial.
Alcohol intoxication (also known as drunkenness among other names) is a physiological condition that may result in psychological alterations of consciousness. Drunkenness is induced by the ingestion or consumption of Alcohol in a living body.
In signal processing, data compression, source coding,
The region that is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo was first settled about 80,000 years ago. Bantu migration arrived in the region from Nigeria in the 7th century AD.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo is by the Congo River Basin, which covers an area of almost . The country's only outlet to the Atlantic Ocean is a narrow strip of land on the north bank of the Congo River.
thumb|250px|Young women preparing [[fufu.]]
$42 billion (nominal) (2016 est.)
Politics of the Democratic Republic of Congo take place in a framework of a republic in transition from a civil war to a semi-presidential republic.
Telecommunications in the Democratic Republic of the Congo include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Ground transport in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has always been difficult.  The terrain and climate of the Congo Basin present serious barriers to road and rail construction, and the distances are enormous across this vast country.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Denmark, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
}}
Transport in Denmark is developed and modern. The motorway network now covers 1,111 kmRoad network by type of road and time (2008).
The foreign policy of Denmark is based on its identity as a sovereign nation in Europe. As such its primary foreign policy focus is on its relations with other nations as a sovereign independent nation.
Djibouti is a country in the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Somalia to the southeast, Eritrea and the Red Sea to the north and northeast, Ethiopia to the west and south, and the Gulf of Aden to the east.
337 km   113 km   60 km
()
Politics of Djibouti takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the executive power is exercised by the President and the Government. Legislative power is vested in both the Government and the National Assembly.
$3.093 billion PPP (2015 est.
Transport in Djibouti includes highways, airports, railways and seaports.
The Arawaks were guided to Dominica, and other islands of the Caribbean, by the South Equatorial Current from the waters of the Orinoco River. These descendants of the early Taínos were overthrown by the Kalinago tribe of the Caribs.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Dominica, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Dominica takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Dominica is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Country Code: +1767
There is no standing army in Dominica since 1981.Overview.
Like its Eastern Caribbean neighbors, the main priority of Dominica's foreign relations is economic development. The country maintains missions in Washington, New York, London, and Brussels and is represented jointly with other Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) members in Canada.
(DIN; in English, the German Institute for Standardization) is the German national organization for standardization and is the German ISO member body. DIN is a German Registered Association (e.
The recorded history of the Dominican Republic began when the Italian-born navigator Christopher Columbus, working for the Spanish Crown, happened upon a large island in the region of the western Atlantic Ocean that later came to be known as the Caribbean. It was inhabited by the Taíno, an Arawakan people, who variously called their island Ayiti, Bohio, or Quisqueya (Kiskeya).
The Dominican Republic (Spanish: República Dominicana) is a country in the West Indies that occupies the eastern five-eighths of Hispaniola. It has an area of 48,670 km², including offshore islands.
Telecommunications in the Dominican Republic include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transportation in the Dominican Republic is composed of a system of roads, airports, ports, harbours and an urban railway:
Army  Navy  Air Force
The Dominican Republic has a close relationship with the United States and with the other states of the Inter-American system. It has accredited diplomatic missions in most Western Hemisphere countries and in principal European capitals.
A disease  is a particular abnormal condition that affects part or all of an organism and that consists of a disorder of a structure or function. The study of disease is called pathology, which includes the study of cause.
Hellespontus}}
,  (),
Dynamite is an explosive made of nitroglycerin, sorbents (such as powdered shells or clay) and stabilizers. It was invented by the Swedish chemist and engineer Alfred Nobel in Geesthacht, and patented in 1867.
This is a list of decades from the beginning of the 18th century BC to the end of the 21st century AD, including links to corresponding articles with more information about them.
}}
border
A deed poll (plural: deeds poll) is a legal document binding only to a single person or several persons acting jointly to express an active intention. It is, strictly speaking, not a contract because it binds only one party and expresses an intention instead of a promise.
right|thumb|This [[16 mm film|16 mm spring-wound Bolex &quot;H16&quot; Reflex camera is a popular entry level camera used in film schools.]]
}}
Dairy products or milk products are a type of food produced from or containing the milk of mammals, primarily cattle, water buffaloes, goats, sheep, camels, and humans. Oxford Dictionaries|website=Oxford Dictionaries  English|access-date=2016-11-11}} Dairy products include food items such as yogurt, cheese, and butter.
Dollar (often represented by the dollar sign $) is the name of more than twenty currencies, including (ordered by population) those of the United States, Canada, Australia, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Belize, New Zealand, Liberia, Jamaica and Namibia. The U.
Dutch may refer to:
Dysprosium is a chemical element with symbol Dy and atomic number 66. It is a rare earth element with a metallic silver luster.
Deforestation, clearance or clearing is the removal of a forest or stand of trees where the land is thereafter converted to a non-forest use.SAFnet Dictionary|Definition For [deforestation].
Desertification is a type of land degradation in which relatively dry area of land becomes increasingly arid, typically losing its bodies of water as well as vegetation and wildlife.Geist (2005), p.
, bike/pedestrian
Dock may refer to:
D (named dee &quot;D&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;dee&quot;, op. cit.
∆}}
Digamma, waw, or wau (uppercase: Ϝ, lowercase: ϝ, numeral: ϛ) is an archaic letter of the Greek alphabet. It originally stood for the sound  but it has principally remained in use as a Greek numeral for 6.
Dose means quantity (in units of energy/mass) in the fields of nutrition, medicine, and toxicology. Dosage is the rate of application of a dose, although in common and imprecise usage, the words are sometimes used synonymously.
The term dialect (from Latin , , from the Ancient Greek word , , &quot;discourse&quot;, from , , &quot;through&quot; and , , &quot;I speak&quot;) is used in two distinct ways to refer to two different types of linguistic phenomena:
thumb|right|upright|[[Digitalis lutea]]
Dendrites (from Greek δένδρον déndron, &quot;tree&quot;), also dendrons, are the branched projections of a neuron that act to propagate the electrochemical stimulation received from other neural cells to the cell body, or soma, of the neuron from which the dendrites project. Electrical stimulation is transmitted onto dendrites by upstream neurons (usually their axons) via synapses which are located at various points throughout the dendritic tree.
In law, damages are an award, typically of money, to be paid to a person as compensation for loss or injury.International principle: Trans-Lex.
}}
A disaster is a serious disruption, occurring over a relatively short time, of the functioning of a community or a society involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss and impacts, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society  to cope using its own resources.
http://www.worldfootball.
Democrat or Democratic may refer to:
Dec}}
==Events==
==Events==
Diogo Cão (), anglicised as Diogo Cam and also known as Diego Cam, |p=45 }}. was a Portuguese explorer and one of the most notable navigators of the Age of Discovery.
Drinking games are games which involve the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Evidence of the existence of drinking games dates back to antiquity.
1265
Dennis the Menace may refer to separate UK and U.S.
A dye is a colored substance that has an affinity to the [to which it is being applied. The dye is generally applied in an aqueous solution], and may require a [[mordant to improve the fastness of the dye on the fiber.
Differential equations arise in many problems in physics, engineering, and other sciences. The following examples show how to solve differential equations in a few simple cases when an exact solution exists.
Descriptive statistics are statistics that quantitatively describe or summarize features of a collection of information. Descriptive statistics are distinguished from inferential statistics (or inductive statistics), in that descriptive statistics aim to summarize a sample, rather than use the data to learn about the population that the sample of data is thought to represent.
Among the kindsof data that national leaders need are the demographic statistics of their population. Records of births, deaths, marriages, immigration and emigration and a regular census of population provide information that is key to making sound decisions about national policy.
Detective Story}}
Daniel Defoe (; c. 166024 April 1731),According to Paul Duguid in &quot;Limits of self organization&quot;, First Monday (11 September 2006): &quot;Most reliable sources hold that the date of Defoe's birth was uncertain and may have fallen in 1659 or 1661.
==Events==
==Events==
The discovery of the 118 chemical elements known to exist today is presented here in chronological order. The elements are listed generally in the order in which each was first defined as the pure element, as the exact date of discovery of most elements cannot be accurately defined.
In western music theory, a diatonic scale is a heptatonic scale that includes five whole steps (whole tones) and two half steps (semitones) in each octave, in which the two half steps are separated from each other by either two or three whole steps, depending on their position in the scale. This pattern ensures that, in a diatonic scale spanning more than one octave, all the half steps are maximally separated from each other (i.
}}
}}
}}
Dilation (or dilatation) and curettage (D&amp;C) refers to the dilation (widening/opening) of the cervix and surgical removal of part of the lining of the uterus and/or contents of the uterus by scraping and scooping (curettage). It is a therapeutic gynecological procedure as well as the most often used method of first trimester miscarriage or abortion.
The decimal numeral system (also called base-ten positional numeral system, and occasionally called denary) is the standard system for denoting integer and non-integer numbers. It is the extension to non-integer numbers of the Hindu–Arabic numeral system.
The Dorians (; , Dōrieis, singular , Dōrieus) were one of the four major ethnic groups among which the Hellenes (or Greeks) of Classical Greece considered themselves divided (along with the Aeolians, Achaeans, and Ionians).Apollodorus, Library, I, 7.
The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen (), passed by France's National Constituent Assembly in August 1789, is an important document of the French Revolution and in the history of human and civil rights.The French title can be also translated as &quot;Declaration of Human and Civic Rights&quot;.
==Events==
The Doctrine and Covenants (sometimes abbreviated and cited as D&amp;C or D. and C.
Death is the cessation of all biological functions that sustain a living organism. Phenomena which commonly bring about death include senescence, predation, malnutrition, disease, suicide, homicide, starvation, dehydration, and accidents or trauma resulting in terminal injury.
The Deseret alphabet (LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from &quot;dĕz-a-rĕt'&quot;) (Deseret: 𐐔𐐯𐑅𐐨𐑉𐐯𐐻 or 𐐔𐐯𐑆𐐲𐑉𐐯𐐻) is a phonemic English-language spelling reform developed between 1847 and 1854 by the board of regents of the University of Deseret under the leadership of Brigham Young, the second president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints.
Danish may refer to:
Decade is a compilation by Neil Young, originally released in 1977 as a triple album, now available on two compact discs. It contains 35 of Young's songs recorded between 1966 and 1976, among them five tracks that had been unreleased up to that point.
In ancient Greek religion and Greek mythology, Demeter (; Attic:  Dēmḗtēr, ; Doric:  Dāmā́tēr) is the goddess of the harvest and agriculture, who presided over grains and the fertility of the earth. Her cult titles include Sito (), &quot;she of the Grain&quot;,.
Dylan may refer to:
Dada () or Dadaism was an art movement of the European avant-garde in the early 20th century, with early centers in Zürich, Switzerland at the Cabaret Voltaire (circa 1916); New York Dada began circa 1915,Mario de Micheli (2006). Las vanguardias artísticas del siglo XX.
Doonesbury is a comic strip by American cartoonist Garry Trudeau that chronicles the adventures and lives of an array of characters of various ages, professions, and backgrounds, from the President of the United States to the title character, Michael Doonesbury, who has progressed from a college student to a youthful senior citizen over the decades.
Dice (singular die or dice;Definition of dice in English, Oxford Dictionaries from Old French dé; from Latin datum &quot;something which is given or played&quot;) are small throwable objects with multiple resting positions, used for generating random numbers. Dice are suitable as gambling devices for games like craps and are also used in non-gambling tabletop games.
Dumpster diving, commonly referred to in the UK and many parts of Europe as totting, skipping, skip diving or skip salvage, is a popular form of modern salvaging of waste in large commercial, residential, industrial and construction containers to find items that have been discarded by their owners, but that may prove useful to the picker. It is not confined to dumpsters specifically, and may cover standard household waste containers, landfills or small dumps.
thumb|Jordan Rudess performing with a digital synth
A definition of music is a definition, or statement of the meaning of, the term music. An accurate and concise definition of music is fundamental to being able  to discuss, categorize, and otherwise consider what we understand as being music.
In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts primarily in one direction (asymmetric conductance); it has low (ideally zero) resistance to the current in one direction, and high (ideally infinite) resistance in the other. A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline piece of semiconductor material with a p–n junction connected to two electrical terminals.
In Greek mythology, Daedalus (;  Daidalos &quot;cunningly wrought&quot;, perhaps related to δαιδάλλω &quot;to work artfully&quot;;R. S.
Developed by the Civilian Conservation Corps in the 1930s
Dominoes is a family of games played with rectangular &quot;domino&quot; tiles.  Each domino is a rectangular tile with a line dividing its face into two square ends.
In chemistry, biochemistry, and pharmacology, a dissociation constant (K_d) is a specific type of equilibrium constant that measures the propensity of a larger object to separate (dissociate) reversibly into smaller components, as when a complex falls apart into its component molecules, or when a salt splits up into its component ions.  The dissociation constant is the inverse of the association constant.
In engineering and science, dimensional analysis is the analysis of the relationships between different physical quantities by identifying their base quantities (such as length, mass, time, and electric charge) and units of measure (such as miles vs. kilometers, or pounds vs.
==Events==
Digital television (DTV) is the transmission of audio and video by digitally processed and multiplexed signal, in contrast to the totally analog and channel separated signals used by analog television. Digital TV can support more than one program in the same channel bandwidth.
The Declaration of Arbroath is a declaration of Scottish independence, made in 1320. It is in the form of a letter in Latin submitted to Pope John XXII, dated 6 April 1320, intended to confirm Scotland's status as an independent, sovereign state and defending Scotland's right to use military action when unjustly attacked.
Digital data, in information theory and information systems, are discrete, discontinuous representations of information or works, as contrasted with continuous, or analog signals which behave in a continuous manner, or represent information using a continuous function.
Deduction may refer to:
A demon (from Koine Greek  daimónion) is a supernatural and often malevolent being prevalent in religion, occultism, literature, fiction, mythology and folklore.
thumb|Domino effect events
right|250 px|thumb|Six inch oil diffusion pump.
Domenico Alberti (c. 1710 – 14 October 1740) was an Italian singer, harpsichordist, and composer.
Distillation is the process of separating the component or substances from a liquid mixture by selective evaporation and condensation. Distillation may result in essentially complete separation (nearly pure components), or it may be a partial separation that increases the concentration of selected components of the mixture.
Dyslexia, also known as reading disorder, is characterized by trouble with reading despite normal intelligence. Different people are affected to varying degrees.
The Duesberg hypothesis is the claim, associated with University of California, Berkeley professor Peter Duesberg, that various noninfectious factors such as but not limited to, recreational and pharmaceutical drug use are the cause of AIDS, and that HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is merely a harmless passenger virus. The most prominent supporters of this hypothesis are Duesberg himself, biochemist and vitamin proponent David Rasnick, and journalist Celia Farber. The scientific community contends that Duesberg's arguments are the result of cherry-picking predominantly outdated scientific data and selectively ignoring evidence in favor of HIV's role in AIDS. The scientific consensus is that the Duesberg hypothesis is incorrect and that HIV is the cause of AIDS.Fact Sheets on HIV/AIDS, from the Centers for Disease Control. Retrieved 9 March 2007.World Health Organization HIV and AIDS Programme, from the World Health Organization website. Retrieved 9 March 2007.
DSL or digital subscriber line is a family of technologies that provide digital data transmission over the wires of a local telephone network.
Diamagnetic materials are repelled by a magnetic field; an applied magnetic field creates an induced magnetic field in them in the opposite direction, causing a repulsive force.  In contrast, paramagnetic and ferromagnetic materials are attracted by a magnetic field.
Duke of Marlborough ( ) is a title in the Peerage of England. It was created by Queen Anne in 1702 for John Churchill, 1st Earl of Marlborough (1650–1722), the noted military leader, and indeed an unqualified reference to the Duke of Marlborough in a historical text will almost certainly refer to him.
==Events==
A difference engine is an automatic mechanical calculator designed to tabulate polynomial functions. The name derives from the method of divided differences, a way to interpolate or tabulate functions by using a small set of polynomial coefficients.
In Norse mythology, Draupnir (Old Norse &quot;the dripper&quot;Orchard (1997:34).) is a gold ring possessed by the god Odin with the ability to multiply itself: Every ninth night, eight new rings 'drip' from Draupnir, each one of the same size and weight as the original.
In vector calculus, divergence is a vector operator that produces a scalar field giving the quantity of a vector field's source at each point. More technically, the divergence represents the volume density of the outward flux of a vector field from an infinitesimal volume around a given point.
==Events==
thumb|200px|A decision problem has only two possible outputs, yes or no (or alternately 1 or 0) on any input.
The Domain Name System (DNS) is a hierarchical decentralized naming system for computers, services, or other resources connected to the Internet or a private network. It associates various information with domain names assigned to each of the participating entities.
In Christian terminology, docetism (from the Greek  dokeĩn (to seem) dókēsis (apparition, phantom),: &quot;A term derived from the Greek dokein, to seem, or to appear.&quot;.
Drachma (, ; is also made up.}} pl.
In the Roman currency system, the dēnārius (pronunciation: ), plural: dēnāriī (pronunciation: ) was a small silver coin first minted about 211 BC during the Second Punic War.Crawford, Michael H.
*
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Definable real numbers are those that can be uniquely specified by a description.  The description may be expressed as a construction or as a formula of a formal language.
1475
In religion, divinity or godhead is the state of things that are believed to come from a supernatural power or deity, such as a god, supreme being, creator deity, or spirits, and are therefore regarded as sacred and holy.Wiktionary: &quot;divine (comparative more divine, superlative most divine)
thumb|upright=1.0|The area within the depth of field appears sharp, while the areas beyond the depth of field appear blurry.
The Dumnonii or Dumnones were a British tribe who inhabited Dumnonia, the area now known as Devon and Cornwall (and some areas of present-day Dorset and Somerset) in the further parts of the South West peninsula of Britain, from at least the Iron Age up to the early Saxon period. They were bordered to the east by the Durotriges tribe.
}}
thumb|The Christmas tree counting down at [[Saskatchewan International Raceway|SIR, outside Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Note the blinder, to prevent the driver from being distracted by the lights for the other lane.
}}
A day is a unit of time. In common usage, it is either an interval equal to 24 hours or daytime, the consecutive period of time during which the Sun is above the horizon.
thumb|An example of output from an SQL database query.
In electromagnetism, there are two kinds of dipoles:
Dynamics (from Greek δυναμικός dynamikos &quot;powerful&quot;, from δύναμις dynamis &quot;power&quot;) may refer to:
Draught beer, also spelt draft,  is beer served from a cask or keg rather than from a bottle or can. Draught beer served from a pressurised keg is also known as
Director may refer to:
thumb|The [[Diana of Versailles, a 2nd-century Roman version in the Greek tradition of iconography (Louvre Museum, Paris).]]
==Events==
In physics and mathematics, the dimension of a mathematical space (or object) is informally defined as the minimum number of coordinates needed to specify any point within it. Thus a line has a dimension of one because only one coordinate is needed to specify a point on itfor example, the point at 5 on a number line.
The duodecimal system (also known as base 12 or dozenal) is a positional notation numeral system using twelve as its base. In this system, the number ten may be written by a rotated &quot;2&quot; (2) and the number eleven by a rotated &quot;3&quot; (3).
Diving is the sport of jumping or falling into water from a platform or springboard, usually while performing acrobatics. Diving is an internationally recognized sport that is part of the Olympic Games.
The dative case (abbreviated , or sometimes  when it is a core argument) is a grammatical case used in some languages to indicate, among other uses, the noun to which something is given, as in Maria Jacobo potum dedit, Latin for &quot;Maria gave Jacob a drink&quot;.
In geometry, a dodecahedron (Greek , from  dōdeka &quot;twelve&quot; +  hédra &quot;base&quot;, &quot;seat&quot; or &quot;face&quot;) is any polyhedron with twelve flat faces. The most familiar dodecahedron is the regular dodecahedron, which is a Platonic solid.
A dictator is a political leader who   wields absolute power. A state ruled by a dictator is called a dictatorship.
{| class=&quot;infobox&quot; border=&quot;0&quot; cellpadding=&quot;0&quot; cellspacing=&quot;0&quot; style=&quot;padding:0; width:1px;&quot;
Darwinism is a theory of biological evolution developed by the English naturalist Charles Darwin (1809–1882) and others, stating that all species of organisms arise and develop through the natural selection of small, inherited variations that increase the individual's ability to compete, survive, and reproduce. Also called Darwinian theory, it originally included the broad concepts of transmutation of species or of evolution which gained general scientific acceptance after Darwin published On the Origin of Species in 1859, including concepts which predated Darwin's theories.
Doraemon () is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Fujiko F. Fujio.
Dartmouth}}
}}
The density, or more precisely, the volumetric mass density, of a substance is its mass per unit volume. The symbol most often used for density is ρ (the lower case Greek letter rho), although the Latin letter D can also be used.
right|thumb|220px|Westermann's 1911 Die [[Sudanic languages|Sudansprachen.]]Diedrich Hermann Westermann (June 24, 1875–May 31, 1956) was a German missionary, Africanist, and linguist.
A diacritic – also diacritical mark, diacritical point, or diacritical sign – is a glyph added to a letter, or basic glyph. The term derives from the Ancient Greek  (diakritikós, &quot;distinguishing&quot;), from  (diakrī́nō, &quot;to distinguish&quot;).
Digraph may refer to:
The didgeridoo () (also known as a didjeridu) is a wind instrument developed by Indigenous Australians of northern Australia potentially within the last 1,500 years and still in widespread use today both in Australia and around the world. It is sometimes described as a natural wooden trumpet or &quot;drone pipe&quot;.
Developmental biology is the study of the process by which animals and plants grow and develop. Developmental biology also encompasses the biology of regeneration, asexual reproduction and metamorphosis and the growth and differentiation of stem cells in the adult organism.
==Events==
}}
In astronomy, a double planet (also binary planet) is a binary system where both objects are of planetary mass. The term is not recognized by the International Astronomical Union and is therefore not an official classification.
Note 2: Denaturation can occur when proteins and nucleic acids are subjected to elevated temperature or to extremes of pH, or to nonphysiological concentrations of salt, organic solvents, urea, or other chemical agents.
}}
Dieting is the practice of eating food in a regulated and supervised fashion to decrease, maintain, or increase body weight. In other words, it is conscious control or restriction of the diet.
Diet may refer to:
Dubnium is a chemical element with symbol Db and atomic number 105. A transactinide element, dubnium is highly radioactive: the most stable known isotope, dubnium-268, has a half-life of just above a day.
A disaccharide (also called a double sugar or bioseBiose on www.merriam-webster.
Dactylic hexameter (also known as &quot;heroic hexameter&quot; and &quot;the meter of epic&quot;) is a form of meter or rhythmic scheme in poetry. It is traditionally associated with the quantitative meter of classical epic poetry in both Greek and Latin and was consequently considered to be the Grand Style of classical poetry.
, genitive
Draco (; , Drakōn; fl. c.
In linear algebra, the determinant is a useful value that can be computed from the elements of a square matrix.  The determinant of a matrix  is denoted , , or }}.
Delfínus, genitive
Disk storage (also sometimes called the drive storage) is a general category of storage mechanisms where data are recorded by various electronic, magnetic, optical, or mechanical changes to a surface layer of one or more rotating disks. A disk drive is a device implementing such a storage mechanism.
A disk operating system (abbreviated DOS) is a computer operating system that can use a disk storage device, such as a floppy disk, hard disk drive, or optical disc. A disk operating system must provide a file system for organizing, reading, and writing files on the storage disk.
Dual or Duals may refer to:
Doublespeak is language that deliberately obscures, disguises, distorts, or reverses the meaning of words. Doublespeak may take the form of euphemisms (e.
The Diesel cycle is a combustion process of a reciprocating internal combustion engine. In it, fuel is ignited by heat generated during the compression of air in the combustion chamber, into which fuel is then injected.
}}
Dual-tone multi-frequency signaling (DTMF) is an in-band telecommunication signaling system using the voice-frequency band over telephone lines between telephone equipment and other communications devices and switching centers. DTMF was first developed in the Bell System in the United States, and became known under the trademark Touch-Tone for use in push-button telephones supplied to telephone customers, starting in 1963.
The deuterocanonical books (from the Greek meaning &quot;belonging to the second canon&quot;) are the books and passages of the Christian Old Testament that are not part of the Hebrew Bible. The term, used since the 16th century by the Catholic Church and sometimes by Orthodox Christianity,  distinguishes these texts from the protocanonical books, which are the books contained in the Hebrew canon.
74.08 m (1986)
Discrete mathematics is the study of mathematical structures that are fundamentally discrete rather than [In contrast to real number]s that have the property of varying &quot;smoothly&quot;, the objects studied in discrete mathematics – such as [[integers, graphs, and statements in logicRichard Johnsonbaugh, Discrete Mathematics, Prentice Hall, 2008. – do not vary smoothly in this way, but have distinct, separated values.
A data set (or dataset, although this spelling is not present in many contemporary dictionaries like Merriam-Webster) is a collection of data. Most commonly a data set  corresponds to the contents of a single database table, or a single statistical data matrix, where every column of the table represents a particular variable, and each row corresponds to a given member of the data set in question.
DMA may refer to:
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) is published by the American Psychiatric Association (APA) and offers a common language and standard criteria for the classification of mental disorders. It is used, or relied upon, by clinicians, researchers, psychiatric drug regulation agencies, health insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, the legal system, and policy makers together with alternatives such as the ICD-10 Classification of Mental and Behavioural Disorders, produced by the WHO.
Distributed computing  is  a field of computer science that studies distributed systems. A distributed system is a model in which components located on networked computers communicate and coordinate their actions by passing messages.
Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces (APIs) for handling tasks related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft platforms. Originally, the names of these APIs all began with Direct, such as Direct3D, DirectDraw, DirectMusic, DirectPlay, DirectSound, and so forth.
Slalom is an alpine skiing and alpine snowboarding discipline, involving skiing between poles or gates. These are spaced more closely than those in giant slalom, super giant slalom and downhill, necessitating quicker and shorter turns.
thumb|315px|A [[hash table.]]
Dmitri Dmitriyevich Shostakovich (|Dmitriy Dmitrievich Shostakovich}}, ; 9 August 1975) was a Russian composer and pianist. He is regarded as one of the major composers of the 20th century.
Denver Skyline
Deuterium (symbol  or , also known as heavy hydrogen) is one of two stable isotopes of hydrogen. The nucleus of deuterium, called a deuteron, contains one proton and one neutron, whereas the far more common hydrogen isotope, protium, has no neutron in the nucleus.
Digital signal processing (DSP) is the use of digital processing, such as by computers, to perform a wide variety of signal processing operations.  The signals processed in this manner are a sequence of numbers that represent samples of a continuous variable in a domain such as time, space, or frequency.
thumb|[[Eris (mythology)|Eris, the Greek goddess of [is a paradigm based upon the book the Principia Discordia], written by Greg Hill with Kerry Wendell Thornley in 1963, the two working under the pseudonyms [[Malaclypse the Younger and Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst. According to its primary historian (Adam Gorightly) Discordianism was founded as a parody religion.
Disjunction introduction or addition (also called or introduction)HurleyMoore and ParkerCopi and Cohen is a rule of inference of propositional logic and almost every other deduction system. The rule makes it possible to introduce disjunctions to logical proofs.
In propositional logic, disjunction eliminationhttp://www.cs.
A dragon is a legendary creature, typically scaled or fire-spewing and with serpentine, reptilian or avian traits, that features in the myths of many cultures around world. The two most well-known cultural traditions of dragon are
Differential cryptanalysis is a general form of cryptanalysis applicable primarily to block ciphers, but also to stream ciphers and cryptographic hash functions. In the broadest sense, it is the study of how differences in information input can affect the resultant difference at the output.
A document type definition (DTD) is a set of markup declarations that define a document type for an SGML-family markup language (SGML, XML, HTML).
The Devil (from Greek: [or diábolos slanderer] or accuser) is, according to [[Christianity, the primary opponent of God.
The diesel engine (also known as a compression-ignition or CI engine) and named after  Rudolf Diesel, is an internal combustion engine in which ignition of the fuel which is injected into the combustion chamber is caused by the elevated temperature of the air in the cylinder due to mechanical compression (adiabatic compression). Diesel engines work by compressing only the air.
Dark Star or Darkstar may refer to:
Drawing is a form of visual art in which a person uses various drawing instruments to mark paper or another two-dimensional medium. Instruments include graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoal, chalk, pastels, various kinds of erasers, markers, styluses, various metals (such as silverpoint) and electronic drawing.
The Book of Deuteronomy (from , Deuteronómion, &quot;second law&quot;; , Devārīm, &quot;[spoken] words&quot;) is the fifth book of the Torah (a section of the Hebrew Bible) and the Christian Old Testament. The Hebrew title is taken from the opening phrase Eleh ha-devarim, &quot;These are the words...
Down is the y-axis relative vertical direction opposed to up.
1000 BCE
Design is the creation of a plan or convention for the construction of an object, system or measurable human interaction (as in architectural blueprints, engineering drawings, business processes, circuit diagrams, and sewing patterns).Dictionary meanings in the Cambridge Dictionary of American English, at Dictionary.
Denormalization is a strategy used on a previously-normalized database to increase performance. In computing, denormalization is the process of trying to improve the read performance of a database, at the expense of losing some write performance, by adding redundant copies of data or by grouping data.
In mathematics, differential topology is the field dealing with differentiable functions on differentiable manifolds. It is closely related to differential geometry and together they make up the geometric theory of differentiable manifolds.
In mathematics, a diffeomorphism is an isomorphism of smooth manifolds. It is an invertible function that maps one differentiable manifold to another such that both the function and its inverse are smooth.
) |w=Tao Te Ching |mi= | c2=老子 | p2=Lǎozǐ | w2=Lao-tzu }}
The dyne (symbol dyn, from Greek δύναμις, dynamis, meaning power, force) is a unit of force specified in the centimetre–gram–second system of units (CGS), a predecessor of the modern SI. One dyne is equal to 10 micronewtons, 10−5
Diocletian (; ), born Diocles (244–312),New Empire, 30, 46; Bowman, &quot;Diocletian and the First Tetrarchy&quot; (CAH), 68. was a Roman emperor from 284 to 305.
Deism (  or  ; derived from Latin &quot;deus&quot; meaning &quot;god&quot;) is a philosophical position which posits that a god does not interfere directly with the world. It also rejects revelation as a source of religious knowledge and asserts that reason and observation of the natural world are sufficient to determine the existence of a single creator of the universe.
A dramaturge or dramaturg is a professional within a theatre or opera company who deals mainly with research and development of plays or operas.  Its modern-day function was originated by the innovations of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, an 18th-century German playwright, philosopher, and theorist about theatre.
Dispersion may refer to:
A Dyson sphere is a hypothetical megastructure that completely encompasses a star and captures most or all of its power output. The first known mention of the concept of a star enclosed by a sphere was in an early Indo-European religious creation myth which described the prenatal sun as being enclosed (imprisoned) by rock.
Democide is a term revived and redefined by the political scientist R. J.
==Events==
Diaspora studies is an academic field established in the late 20th century to study dispersed ethnic populations, which are often termed diaspora peoples. The usage of the term diaspora carries the connotation of forced resettlement, due to expulsion, coercion, slavery, racism, or war, especially nationalist conflicts.
Damascus steel was a type of steel used for manufacturing sword blades in the Near East made with wootz steel. These swords are characterized by distinctive patterns of banding and mottling reminiscent of flowing water.
The stab-in-the-back myth (, )Despite the similarity of the German word Legende and the English word &quot;legend&quot;, &quot;stab-in-the-back myth&quot; is the preferred term in English. was the notion, widely believed in right-wing circles in Germany after 1918, that the German Army did not lose World War I on the battlefield but was instead betrayed by the civilians on the home front, especially the republicans who overthrew the monarchy in the German Revolution of 1918–19.
Diffraction refers to various phenomena that occur when a wave encounters an obstacle or a slit. It is defined as the bending of light around the corners of an obstacle or aperture into the region of geometrical shadow of the obstacle.
A dolmen () is a type of single-chamber megalithic tomb, usually consisting of two or more vertical megaliths supporting a large flat horizontal capstone (&quot;table&quot;), although there are also more complex variants. Most date from the early Neolithic (40003000 BC).
In astronomy, declination (abbreviated dec; symbol δ) is one of the two angles that locate a point on the celestial sphere in the equatorial coordinate system, the other being hour angle. Declination's angle is measured north or south of the celestial equator, along the hour circle passing through the point in question.
A diaspora (from Greek διασπορά, &quot;scattering, dispersion&quot;) is a scattered population whose origin lies within a smaller geographic locale.  Diaspora can also refer to the movement of the population from its original homeland.
Dogs have been selectively bred for thousands of years, sometimes by inbreeding dogs from the same ancestral lines, sometimes by mixing dogs from very different lines. The process continues today, resulting in a widening in appearance without speciation, &quot;from the Chihuahua to the Great Dane.
Dianic Wicca, also known as Dianic Witchcraft, and, to some also as &quot;Dianism,&quot; &quot;Dianic Feminist Witchcraft,&quot; or simply &quot;Feminist Witchcraft&quot;' is a neopagan religion of female-centered goddess ritual and tradition. While some adherents identify as Wiccan, it differs from most traditions of Wicca in that only goddesses are honored (whereas most Wiccan traditions honor both female and male deities).
}}
Differential geometry is a mathematical discipline that uses the techniques of differential calculus, integral calculus, linear algebra and multilinear algebra to study problems in geometry. The theory of plane and space curves and surfaces in the three-dimensional Euclidean space formed the basis for development of differential geometry during the 18th century and the 19th century.
Middle Pleistocene – Recent
Dimmu Borgir (, ) is a Norwegian symphonic black metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 1993. The name is derived from Dimmuborgir, a volcanic formation in Iceland, the name of which means &quot;dark cities&quot; or &quot;dark castles/fortresses&quot; in Icelandic, Faroese and Old Norse.
==Events==
A door is a moving structure used to block off, and allow access to, an entrance to or within an enclosed space, such as a building or vehicle. Doors normally consist of a panel that swings on hinges on the edge, but there are also doors that slide or spin inside of a space.
Database normalization, or simply normalization, is the process of organizing the columns (attributes) and tables (relations) of a relational database to reduce data redundancy and improve data integrity.
Molecular diffusion, often simply called diffusion, is the thermal motion of all (liquid or gas) particles at temperatures above absolute zero. The rate of this movement is a function of temperature, viscosity of the fluid and the size (mass) of the particles.
In linguistics, declension is the inflection of nouns, pronouns, adjectives, and articles to indicate number (at least singular and plural), case (nominative or subjective, genitive or possessive, etc.), and gender.
A daffynition (derived from [and definition]) is a [[pun format involving the reinterpretation of an existing word, on the basis that it sounds like another word (or group of words). They are similar to transpositional puns, but often much less complex and easier to create.
The Dutch Football League is organized by the Royal Dutch Football Association (KNVB, Koninklijke Nederlandse Voetbalbond).The most successful teams are Ajax (33), PSV (23) and Feyenoord (14).
Dark matter is a hypothetical type of matter distinct from baryonic matter (ordinary matter such as protons and neutrons), neutrinos and dark energy. Dark matter has never been directly observed; however, its existence would explain a number of otherwise puzzling astronomical observations.
thumb|288px|right|Data General Nova 1200 front panel
11.8 % of the population (2016)
thumb|Motorola DragonBall EZ Microprocessor
The modern double-slit experiment is a demonstration that light and matter can display characteristics of both classically defined waves and particles; moreover, it displays the fundamentally probabilistic nature of quantum mechanical phenomena. The original experiment was performed by Davisson and Germer in 1927.
Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications (Digital European Cordless Telecommunications), usually known by the acronym DECT, is a standard primarily used for creating cordless telephone systems. It originated in Europe, where it is the universal standard, replacing earlier cordless phone standards, such as 900 MHz CT1 and CT2.
Dhyāna may refer to:
==Events==
In Irish mythology, Donn (&quot;the dark one&quot;, from )Ó hÓgáin, Dáithí. The Sacred Isle: Belief and Religion in Pre-Christian Ireland.
Data compression ratio, also known as compression power, is a computer science term used to quantify the reduction in data-representation size produced by a data compression algorithm.  The data compression ratio is analogous to the physical compression ratio used to measure physical compression of substances.
A disc jockey (DJ) is a person who mixes different sources of pre-existing recorded music as it is playing, usually for a live audience in a nightclub or dance club or via broadcasting.
(strait)
thumb|right|The [[Western Ghats at Matheran in Maharashtra]]
&quot;Don't ask, don't tell&quot; (DADT) was the official United States policy on military service by gays, bisexuals, and lesbians, instituted by the Clinton Administration on February 28, 1994, when Department of Defense Directive 1304.26 issued on December 21, 1993, took effect, lasting until September 20, 2011.
}}
The Diets of Nuremberg, also called the Imperial Diets of Nuremberg, took place at different times between the Middle Ages and the 17th century.
DNA ligase is a specific type of enzyme, a ligase, () that facilitates the joining of DNA strands together by catalyzing the formation of a phosphodiester bond. It plays a role in repairing single-strand breaks in duplex DNA in living organisms, but some forms (such as DNA ligase IV) may specifically repair double-strand breaks (i.
The Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC), or Dewey Decimal System, is a proprietary library classification system first published in the United States by Melvil Dewey in 1876. It has been revised and expanded through 23 major editions, the latest issued in 2011, and has grown from a four-page pamphlet in 1876.
dukkhô
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to dance:
DCM may refer to:
DKW (Dampf-Kraft-Wagen, ) is a German car and motorcycle marque.  The company and brand is one of the ancestor companies of the modern day Audi company as one of the four companies that formed Auto-Union.
The Reverend Doctor Christopher Syn is the smuggler hero of a series of novels by Russell Thorndike. The first book, Doctor Syn: A Tale of the Romney Marsh was published in 1915.
Dhrystone is a synthetic computing benchmark program developed in 1984 by Reinhold P. Weicker intended to be representative of system (integer) programming.
==Events==
The Doppler effect (or the Doppler shift) is the change in frequency or wavelength of a wave for an observer who is moving relative to the wave source.
In precise timekeeping, ΔT (Delta T, delta-T, deltaT, or DT) is the time difference obtained by subtracting Universal Time (UT) from Terrestrial Time (TT): .
==Events==
}}
Digital video is a representation of moving visual images in the form of encoded digital data. This is in contrast to analog video, which represents moving visual images with analog signals.
Bind}}
The Dublin Core Schema is a small set of vocabulary terms that can be used to describe web resources (video, images, web pages, etc.), as well as physical resources such as books or CDs, and objects like artworks.
__NOTOC__
thumb|A contrived example showing DC al FINE.  Use of Da Capo prevents the need to write out extra measures, often many more than in this example.
A dominatrix (), plural dominatrixes or dominatrices (), is a woman who takes the dominant role in BDSM activities.
}}
, Chapter 3; Quote - &quot;Rites of passage are dharma in action.&quot;; &quot;Rites of passage, a category of rituals,...
Darwin's Dangerous Idea: Evolution and the Meanings of Life is a 1995 book by Daniel Dennett, in which Dennett looks at some of the repercussions of Darwinian theory. The crux of the argument is that, whether or not Darwin's theories are overturned, there is no going back from the dangerous idea that design (purpose or what something is for) might not need a designer.
The Kingdom of Dahomey ) was an African kingdom (located in the area of the present-day country of Benin) that existed from about 1600 until 1894, when the last king, Behanzin, was defeated by the French, and the country was annexed into the French colonial empire. Dahomey developed on the Abomey Plateau amongst the Fon people in the early 17th century and became a regional power in the 18th century by conquering key cities on the Atlantic coast.
Dragoons originally referred to a class of mounted infantry, who used horses for mobility but dismounted to fight on foot.  From the early 18th century onwards dragoons were increasingly employed as conventional light or medium cavalry; trained for combat with swords from horseback.
thumb|right|Early Belgian Dulcimer (or Hackebrett) from the Hans Adler collection.]
Jula (or Dyula, Dioula) is a Mande language spoken in Burkina Faso, Ivory Coast and Mali. It is one of the Manding languages and is most closely related to Bambara, being mutually intelligible with Bambara as well as Malinke.
A DNA virus is a virus that has DNA as its genetic material and replicates using a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase. The nucleic acid is usually double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) but may also be single-stranded DNA (ssDNA).
border
In naval terminology, a destroyer is a fast, maneuverable long-endurance warship intended to escort larger vessels in a fleet, convoy or battle group and defend them against smaller powerful short-range attackers. They were originally developed in the late 19th century as a defence against torpedo boats, and by the time of the Russo-Japanese War in 1904, these &quot;torpedo boat destroyers&quot; (TBDs) were &quot;large, swift, and powerfully armed torpedo boats designed to destroy other torpedo boats.
Fern Hill (1945) is a poem by Dylan Thomas, first published in the October, 1945, Horizon magazine, with its first book publication as the last poem in Deaths and Entrances.
Daisy cutter may mean:
In the Platonic, Neopythagorean, Middle Platonic, and Neoplatonic schools of philosophy, the demiurge () is an artisan-like figure responsible for the fashioning and maintenance of the physical universe. The term was adopted by the Gnostics.
Doubravka of Bohemia or Dobrawa, Dąbrówka (, ) (ca. 940/45 – 977) was a Bohemian princess of the Přemyslid dynasty and by marriage Duchess of the Polans.
s fate unknown)
Distributism (also known as distributionismCoulter, Michael (2007). Encyclopedia of Catholic Social Thought, Social Science and Social Policy.
Dehydroisoepiandrosterone
In mathematics, the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) converts a finite sequence of equally-spaced samples of a function into an equivalent-length sequence of equally-spaced samples of the discrete-time Fourier transform (DTFT), which is a complex-valued function of frequency. The interval at which the DTFT is sampled is the reciprocal of the duration of the input sequence.
thumb|The dual of a [[cube is an octahedron, shown here with vertices at the cube face centers.]]
The double bass, or simply the bass (and numerous other names), is the largest and lowest-pitched bowed string instrument in the modern symphony orchestra. It is a transposing instrument and is typically notated one octave higher than sounding to avoid excessive ledger lines below the staff.
Daniel Williamson may refer to:
The division of labour is the separation of tasks in any  system so that participants may specialize. Individuals, organizations, and nations are endowed with or acquire specialized capabilities and either form combinations or trade to take advantage of the capabilities of others in addition to their own.
The Davy lamp is a safety lamp for use in flammable atmospheres, invented in 1815 by Sir Humphry Davy.Brief History of the Miner's Flame Safety Lamp at minerslamps.
4.6%
The West Memphis Three are three men who – while teenagers – were tried and convicted, in 1994, of the 1993 murders of three boys in West Memphis, Arkansas. Damien Echols was sentenced to death, Jessie Misskelley, Jr.
Digimon ( Dejimon, branded as Digimon: Digital Monsters, stylized as DIGIMON), short for &quot;Digital Monsters&quot; ( Dejitaru Monsutā), is a Japanese media franchise encompassing virtual pet toys, anime, manga, video games, films and a trading card game. The franchise focuses on Digimon creatures, which are monsters living in a &quot;Digital World&quot;, a parallel universe that originated from Earth's various communication networks.
The Dictum of Kenilworth, issued on 31 October 1266, was a pronouncement designed to reconcile the rebels of the Barons' War with the royal government of England. After the baronial victory at the Battle of Lewes in 1264, Simon de Montfort took control of royal government, but at the Battle of Evesham the next year Montfort was killed, and King Henry III restored to power.
thumb|600px|The London docks in 1882. The [[King George V Dock, London|King George V Dock had not yet been built.
A diesel multiple unit or DMU is a multiple-unit train powered by on-board diesel engines. A DMU requires no separate locomotive, as the engines are incorporated into one or more of the carriages.
Digital cinema refers to the use of digital technology to distribute or project motion pictures as opposed to the historical use of reels of motion picture film, such as 35 mm film. Whereas film reels have to be shipped to movie theaters, a digital movie can be distributed to cinemas in a number of ways: over the Internet or dedicated satellite links, or by sending hard drives or optical discs such as Blu-ray discs.
Datura is a genus of nine species of poisonous vespertine flowering plants belonging to the family Solanaceae. They are commonly known as daturas, but also known as devil's trumpets, not to be confused with angel's trumpets, its closely related genus Brugmansia.
In mathematics, more specifically in abstract algebra, the commutator subgroup or derived subgroup of a group is the subgroup generated by all the commutators of the group.
==Events==
==Events==
In the Northern Hemisphere, December 21st is usually the shortest day of the year and is sometimes regarded as the first day of winter. In the Southern Hemisphere, December 21st is usually the longest day of the year and occurs during the southern summer.
==Events==
==Events==
}}
A dandy, historically, is a man who places particular importance upon physical appearance, refined language, and leisurely hobbies, pursued with the appearance of nonchalance in a cult of self.&quot;One who studies ostentatiously to dress fashionably and elegantly; a fop, an exquisite.
}}
In mathematics and computational geometry,  a Delaunay triangulation for a given set P of discrete points in a plane is a triangulation DT(P) such that no point in P is inside the circumcircle of any triangle in DT(P). Delaunay triangulations maximize the minimum angle of all the angles of the triangles in the triangulation; they tend to avoid sliver triangles.
A defendant is a person accused of a crime in criminal prosecution or a person against whom some type of civil relief is being sought in a civil case.
Gnaeus Domitius Afer (died 59) was a Roman orator and advocate, born at Nemausus (Nîmes) in Gallia Narbonensis.  He flourished in the reigns of Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius and Nero.
Dione may refer to:
Dextromethorphan, or DXM, a common active ingredient found in many over-the-counter cough suppressant cold medicines, is used as a recreational drug and entheogen for its dissociative effects. It has almost no psychoactive effects at medically recommended doses.
In Greek mythology, Dryope (;  derived from δρῦς drys, &quot;oak&quot;; dryope &quot;woodpecker&quot;Graves, Robert, (1955) 1960. The Greek Myths.
Doctor is an academic title that originates from the Latin word of the same spelling and meaning. The word is originally an agentive noun of the Latin verb   'to teach'.
Domnall mac Ailpín (Modern Gaelic: Dòmhnall mac Ailpein,Domnall mac Ailpín is the Mediaeval Gaelic form. anglicised sometimes as Donald MacAlpin, known in most modern regnal lists as Donald I); (812 – 13 April 862) was King of the Picts from 858 to 862.
Dance of Death, also called  Danse Macabre (from the French language), is an artistic genre of late-medieval allegory on the universality of death: no matter one's station in life, the Dance of Death unites all. The Danse Macabre consists of the dead or personified Death summoning representatives from all walks of life to dance along to the grave, typically with a pope, emperor, king, child, and labourer.
David Abercromby was a 17th-century Scottish physician and writer, thought to have died in 1702.Andrew Pyle (editor), Dictionary of Seventeenth Century British Philosophers (2000), article pp.
Deconstruction is philosopher Jacques Derrida's critique of the relationship between text and meaning. Derrida's approach consists in conducting readings of texts with an ear to what runs counter to the structural unity or intended sense of a particular text.
In mathematics, one can often define a direct product of objects already known, giving a new one. This generalizes the Cartesian product of the underlying sets, together with a suitably defined structure on the product set.
Déjà vu (; ) from French, literally &quot;already seen&quot;, is the phenomenon of having the feeling that the situation currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past.Schnider, Armin.
Dionysius Thrax (, , Contemporary Koine: ; 170–90 BC) was a Hellenistic grammarian and a pupil of Aristarchus of Samothrace. His place of origin was not Thrace as the epithet &quot;Thrax&quot; denotes, but probably Alexandria (his father's descent was Thracian).
==Events==
Despina is a given name for girls, meaning 'lady' in Greek. Most of the time it refers to the Virgin Mary, Our Lady.
Other}}
In computer science, a  double-ended queue (dequeue, often abbreviated to deque) is an abstract data type that generalizes a queue, for which elements can be added to or removed from either the front (head) or back (tail).Donald Knuth.
In organic chemistry a diene ( ) or diolefin ( ) is a hydrocarbon that contains two carbon double bonds.  Dienes occur occasionally in nature.
thumb|350px|Arabic Diatessaron, Translated by Abul Faraj Al Tayyib from Syriac to Arabic, 11th century
The Drake equation is a  probabilistic argument used to estimate the number of active, communicative extraterrestrial civilizations in the Milky Way galaxy.
Diplomatic immunity is a form of legal immunity that ensures diplomats are given safe passage and are considered not susceptible to lawsuit or prosecution under the host country's laws, but they can still be  expelled. Modern diplomatic immunity was codified as international law in the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations (1961) which has been ratified by all but a handful of nations, though the concept and custom of such immunity have a much longer history dating back thousands of years.
}}
Deimos, a Greek word for dread, may refer to:
}}
Dsungaripterus was a genus of pterosaur, with an average wingspan of . It lived during the Early Cretaceous, in China, where the first fossil was found in the Junggar Basin.
thumb
Da, DA, dA and other variants may refer to:
In philology, decipherment is the discovery of the meaning of texts written in ancient or obscure languages or scripts.Trask, R.
300px|thumb
45th district 46th district 48th district |birth_name  = Dana Tyrone Rohrabacher
(as ARPA)
Ὁ Ἅγιος Δουνστάνος Ἀρχιεπίσκοπος Καντουαρίας. 19 Μαΐου.
Deprogramming refers to measures that claim to assist a person who holds a controversial belief system in changing those beliefs and abandon allegiance to the religious, political, economic, or social group associated with the belief system.Encyclopedia of religion, Volume 4 , Lindsay Jones , Macmillan Reference USA, 2005, pages 2291-2293Children held hostage: dealing with programmed and brainwashed children, American Bar Association archive publications, Authors Stanley S.
The Daily Planet is a fictional broadsheet newspaper appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly in association with Superman. The newspaper was first mentioned in Action Comics #23 (April 1940).
}}
Digital Access Signalling System 1 (DASS1) is a proprietary protocol defined by British Telecom to provide ISDN services in the United Kingdom. It is now obsolete, having been replaced by DASS2.
Digital Access Signalling System 2 (DASS2) is an obsolescent protocol defined by British Telecom for digital links to PSTN based on ISDN. Although still available on request, it has been superseded by ETS 300 102 (&quot;EuroISDN&quot;).
A diplomatic mission or foreign mission is a group of people from one state or an organisation present in another state to represent the sending state/organisation officially in the receiving state. In practice, a diplomatic mission usually denotes the resident mission, namely the embassy, which is the office of a country's diplomatic representatives in the capital city of another country, whereas consulates are diplomatic missions which are not performed in the capital of the receiving state.
thumb|DEC Alpha AXP 21064 microprocessor die photo
A dagger is a knife with a very sharp point and two or more sharp edges. Typically designed or capable of being used as a thrusting or stabbing weapon.
Defense or defence may refer to:
Dutch Limburg may refer to the following:
DirkJan is a Dutch comic strip series, created in 1989 by Dutch author and artist Mark Retera.https://www.
Dynamic HTML, or DHTML, is an umbrella term for a collection of technologies used together to create interactive and animated websiteshttp://www.w3.
Distance education or distance learning is the education of students who may not always be physically present at a school. Traditionally this usually involved correspondence courses wherein the student corresponded with the school via post.
Death of a Hero is a World War I novel by Richard Aldington. It was his first novel, published by Chatto &amp; Windus in 1929, and thought to be partly autobiographical.
thumb|upright|right|A GPS unit at confluence 53N 0, in [[Lincolnshire, England]]
A debit card (also known as a bank card or check card) is a plastic payment card that can be used instead of cash when making purchases. It is similar to a credit card, but unlike a credit card, the money comes directly from the user's bank account when performing a transaction.
, abbreviated DDR and also known as Dancing Stage in earlier games in Europe, Central Asia, Middle East, Africa, South Asia and Australasia, and also some other games in Japan, is a music video game series produced by Konami. Introduced in Japan in 1998 as part of the Bemani series, and released in North America and Europe in 1999, Dance Dance Revolution is the pioneering series of the rhythm and dance genre in video games.
The Dual Alliance was a defensive alliance between Germany and Austria-Hungary, which was created by treaty on 7 October 1879 as part of Bismarck's system of alliances to prevent or limit war. The two powers promised each other support in case of attack by Russia.
Developmental psychology is the scientific study of how and why human beings change over the course of their life. Originally concerned with infants and children, the field has expanded to include adolescence, adult development, aging, and the entire lifespan.
thumb|200px|DNA replication: The [[double helix is un'zipped' and unwound, then each separated strand (turquoise) acts as a template for replicating a new partner strand (green). Nucleotides (bases) are matched to synthesize the new partner strands into two new double helices.
Dravidian or Dravida may refer to:
other voices
The dot-com bubble (also known as the dot-com boom, the tech bubble,  the Internet bubble, the dot-com collapse, and the information technology bubble)James K. Galbraith and Travis Hale (2004).
}}
This is an index to deities of the different religions, cultures and mythologies of the world, listed by type and by region.
}}
Drosophila (}}}}) is a genus of flies, belonging to the family Drosophilidae, whose members are often called &quot;small fruit flies&quot; or (less frequently) pomace flies, vinegar flies, or wine flies, a reference to the characteristic of many species to linger around overripe or rotting fruit. They should not be confused with the Tephritidae, a related family, which are also called fruit flies (sometimes referred to as &quot;true fruit flies&quot;); tephritids feed primarily on unripe or ripe fruit, with many species being regarded as destructive agricultural pests, especially the Mediterranean fruit fly.
Dictatorship is a form of government in which a country or a group of countries is ruled by one person (a dictator) or by a polity, and power is exercised through various mechanisms in order to ensure that the entity's power remains strong.
,
Digit may refer to:
A drop kick is a type of kick in various codes of football. It involves a player dropping the ball and then kicking it when it bounces off the ground.
Diaeresis (dieresis, diëresis)  may refer to:
The European influence in Afghanistan refers to political, social, and mostly imperialistic influence several European nations and colonial powers have had on the historical development of Afghanistan.
Dementia praecox (a &quot;premature dementia&quot; or &quot;precocious madness&quot;) is a disused psychiatric diagnosis that originally designated a chronic, deteriorating psychotic disorder characterized by rapid cognitive disintegration, usually beginning in the late teens or early adulthood. Over the years, the term &quot;dementia praecox&quot; was gradually replaced by &quot;schizophrenia&quot;, which remains in current diagnostic use.
Cetacea
In abstract algebra, a division ring, also called a skew field, is a ring in which division is possible. Specifically, it is a nonzero ringIn this article, rings have a 1.
JPL
David was the second king of the united Kingdom of Israel.
Design Science License (DSL) is a copyleft license for any type of free content such as text, images, music. Unlike other open source licenses, the DSL was intended to be used on any type of copyrightable work, including documentation and source code.
A drum kit — also called a drum set, trap set, or simply drums — is a collection of drums and other percussion instruments, typically cymbals, which are set up on stands to be played by a single player, with drumsticks held in both hands, and the feet operating pedals that control the hi-hat cymbal and the beater for the bass drum. A drum kit consists of a mix of drums (categorized classically as membranophones, Hornbostel-Sachs high-level classification 2) and idiophones - most significantly cymbals, but can also include the woodblock and cowbell (classified as Hornbostel-Sachs high-level classification 1).
. Retrieved 2012-06-05.
Dispute resolution is the process of resolving disputes between parties. The term dispute resolution may also be used interchangeably with conflict resolution, where conflict styles can be used for different scenarios.
Catan: Cities &amp; Knights (), formerly The Cities and Knights of Catan is an expansion to the board game The Settlers of Catan for three to four players (five to six player play is also possible with the Settlers and Cities &amp; Knights five to six player extensions; two-player play is possible with the Traders &amp; Barbarians expansion).  It contains features taken from The Settlers of Catan, with emphasis on city development and the use of knights, which are used as a method of attacking other players as well as helping opponents defend Catan against a common foe.
Catan: Seafarers, or Seafarers of Catan in older editions, () is an expansion of the board game The Settlers of Catan for three to four players (five-to-six-player play is also possible with both of the respective five-to-six-player extensions).  The main feature of this expansion is the addition of ships, gold rivers, and the pirate to the game, allowing play between multiple islands.
In mathematics, a dynamical system is a system in which a function describes the time dependence of a point in a geometrical space.  Examples include the mathematical models that describe the swinging of a clock pendulum, the flow of water in a pipe, and the number of fish each springtime in a lake.
A  ( , , collectively  / &quot;the people of the dhimma&quot;) is a historical term referring to non-Muslim citizens of an Islamic state. The word literally means &quot;protected person.
}}
The de Havilland DH.98 Mosquito is a British twin-engine multi-role combat aircraft with a two-man crew.
In computing, a  device driver is a computer program that operates or controls a particular type of device that is attached to a computer. A driver provides a software interface to hardware devices, enabling operating systems and other computer programs to access hardware functions without needing to know precise details of the hardware being used.
)}}
In mathematics, a Diophantine equation is a polynomial equation, usually in two or more unknowns, such that only the integer solutions are sought or studied (an integer solution is a solution such that all the unknowns take integer values). A linear Diophantine equation is an equation that sums two monomials of degree zero or one.
Diophantus of Alexandria (; born probably sometime between AD 201 and 215; died around 84 years old, probably sometime between AD 285 and 299) was an Alexandrian Hellenistic mathematician, who was the author of a series of books called Arithmetica, many of which are now lost. Sometimes called &quot;the father of algebra&quot;, his texts deal with solving algebraic equations.
Dong or DONG may refer to:
The U.S.
The Defense Distinguished Service Medal is a United States military award which is presented for exceptionally distinguished performance of duty contributing to the national security or defense of the United States. The medal was created on July 9, 1970 by President Richard Nixon in .
Dacoity is a term used for &quot;banditry&quot; in Bengali, Odiya, Hindi, Kannada and Urdu. The spelling is the anglicized version of the Hindustani word and as a colloquial Indian English word with this meaning, it appears in the Glossary of Colloquial Anglo-Indian Words and Phrases (1903).
Donald G. Tennant (November 23, 1922 – December 8, 2001) was an American advertising agency executive.
* synth-pop
In finance, a derivative is a contract that derives its value from the performance of an underlying entity. This underlying entity can be an asset, index, or interest rate, and is often simply called the &quot;underlying&quot;.
Disney usually refers to the Walt Disney Company.
The divine right of kings, divine right, or God's mandate  is a political and religious doctrine of royal and political legitimacy. It asserts that a monarch is subject to no earthly authority, deriving the right to rule directly from the will of God.
Davros is a character from the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. He was created by screenwriter Terry Nation, originally for the 1975 serial Genesis of the Daleks.
The Daleks ( ) are a fictional extraterrestrial race of mutants principally portrayed in the British science fiction television programme Doctor Who. The Daleks were conceived by science-fiction writer Terry Nation and first appeared in the 1963 Doctor Who serial The Daleks, in the shells designed by Raymond Cusick.
Davy Jones}}
Discharge in the context to expel or to &quot;let go&quot; may refer to:
In law and government, de jure (; , &quot;in law&quot;) describes practices that are legally recognized by official laws. In contrast,  (&quot;in fact&quot; or &quot;in practice&quot;) describes situations that are generally known to exist in reality, even if not legally authorized.
Neal R. Peirce (1973), The Great Plains States of America: People, Politics, and Power in the Nine Great Plains States, W.
}}
In mathematics, a directed set (or a directed preorder or a filtered set) is a nonempty set A together with a reflexive and transitive binary relation ≤ (that is, a preorder), with the additional property that every pair of elements has an upper bound.Kelley, p.
(mathematical constant)]].  For other uses, see E (disambiguation).
Economics (UK English: , ; US English: , ) is &quot;a social science concerned chiefly with description and analysis of the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services&quot;.
Electronic paper and e-paper are display devices that mimic the appearance of ordinary ink on paper. Unlike conventional backlit flat panel displays that emit light, electronic paper displays reflect light like paper.
Ethical egoism  is the normative ethical position that moral agents ought to do what is in their own self-interest. It differs from psychological egoism, which claims that people can only act in their self-interest.
Evolution is change in the heritable characteristics of biological populations over successive generations. Evolutionary processes give rise to biodiversity at every level of biological organisation, including the levels of species, individual organisms, and molecules.
(6th)
Europa may refer to:
Epistemology (; ) is the branch of philosophy concerned with the theory of knowledge.
Engineering is the application of mathematics, as well as scientific, economic, social, and practical knowledge to invent, innovate, design, build, maintain, research, and improve structures, machines, tools, systems, components, materials, processes, solutions, and organizations.
Education is the process of facilitating learning, or the acquisition of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, and habits. Educational methods include storytelling, discussion, teaching, training, and directed research.
An encyclopedia or encyclopaedia is a reference work or compendium providing summaries of information from either all branches of knowledge or from a particular field or discipline. Glossary of Library Terms.
The Enigma machines were a series of electro-mechanical rotor cipher machines developed and used in the early- to mid-20th century to protect commercial, diplomatic and military communication. Enigma was invented by the German engineer Arthur Scherbius at the end of World War I.
Enzymes  are macromolecular biological catalysts. Enzymes accelerate chemical reactions.
Ethics or moral philosophy is a branch of philosophy that involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong conduct.Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy &quot;Ethics&quot; The term ethics derives , .
In mathematics, an equivalence relation is a binary relation that is at the same time a reflexive relation, a symmetric relation and a transitive relation. As a consequence of these properties an equivalence relation provides a partition of a set into equivalence classes.
In mathematics, when the elements of some set S have a notion of equivalence (formalized as an equivalence relation) defined on them, then one may naturally split the set S into equivalence classes. These equivalence classes are constructed so that elements a and b belong to the same equivalence class if and only if a and b are equivalent.
Entertainment is a form of activity that holds the attention and interest of an audience, or gives pleasure and delight. It can be an idea or a task, but is more likely to be one of the activities or events that have developed over thousands of years specifically for the purpose of keeping an audience's attention.
thumb|150px|The general structure of an ether.  R and R' represent any [[alkyl or aryl substituent.
The ecliptic is the circular path on the celestial sphere that the Sun appears to follow over the course of a year; it is the basis of the ecliptic coordinate system. The term also refers to the plane of this path, which is coplanar with Earth's orbit around the Sun (and hence the Sun's apparent orbit around Earth).
}}
In mathematics, an ellipse is a curve in a plane surrounding two focal points such that the sum of the distances to the two focal points is constant for every point on the curve. As such, it is a generalization of a circle, which is a special type of an ellipse having both focal points at the same location.
Extension, extend or extended may refer to:
Evolutionary linguistics is a subfield of psycholinguistics that studies the psychosocial and cultural factors involved in the origin of language and the development of linguistic universals. The main challenge in this research is the lack of empirical data: spoken language leaves practically no traces.
ECHELON, originally a secret government code name, is a surveillance program (signals intelligence/SIGINT collection and analysis network) operated by the US with the aid of four other signatory nations to the UKUSA Security Agreement
In mathematics, an equation is a statement of an equality containing one or more variables. Solving the equation consists of determining which values of the variables make the equality true.
Ethical naturalism (also called moral naturalism or naturalistic cognitivistic definism) is the meta-ethical view which claims that:
Ethical non-naturalism is the meta-ethical view which claims that:
The economic calculation problem is a criticism of using economic planning as a substitute for market-based allocation of the factors of production. It was first proposed by Ludwig von Mises in his 1920 article &quot;Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth&quot; and later expanded upon by Friedrich Hayek.
Ediacara}}
thumb|200px|Fernande (1910–1917) [[French postcard by Jean Agélou.]]
Exist}}
An economy is an area of the production, distribution, or trade, and consumption of goods and services by different agents in a given geographical location in various countries
300px|thumb|right|Aggregate Demand increasing faster than production.
thumb|283px|[[AD-AS model|Aggregate supply – aggregate demand model illustration of aggregate supply (AS) shifting to AS' and causing price level to increase while output shrinks]]
An (N,M,D,K,\epsilon) -extractor is a bipartite graph with N nodes on the left and M nodes on the right such that each node on the left has D neighbors (on the right), which has the added property that
Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is the integrated management of core business processes, often in real-time and mediated by software and technology. These business activities can include:
Endocrinology (from Greek , krīnō, &quot;to separate&quot;; and Endocrinology is the study of the endocrine system in the human body. This is a system of glands which secrete hormones.
The endocrine system is the collection of glands of an organism that secrete hormones directly into the circulatory system to be carried towards distant target organs. The phenomenon of biochemical processes' serving to regulate distant tissues by means of secretions directly into the circulatory system is called endocrine signaling.
In combinatorics, an expander graph is a sparse graph that has strong connectivity properties, quantified using vertex, edge or spectral expansion as described below. Expander constructions have spawned research in pure and applied mathematics, with several applications to complexity theory, design of robust computer networks, and the theory of error-correcting codes.
Eriocaulales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. The name was published by Nakai.
English may refer to:
Easter eggs, also called Paschal eggs,The Legend of Paschal Eggs (Holy Cross Antiochian Orthodox Church) are decorated eggs that are usually used as gifts on the occasion of Easter or springtime celebration. As such, Easter eggs are common during the season of Eastertide (Easter season).
= |day=Easter |format=j F}} (Western)|day=Easter|format=j F|method=Eastern}} (Eastern)
Euphoria is an emotional and mental state defined as a sense of great elation and well being.
}}
The History of Ecuador extends over an 8,000-year period. During this time a variety of cultures and territories influenced what has become the Republic of Ecuador.
thumb|Map of Ecuador
17 million(Ecuadorian citizenship and ancestry worldwide)
}}
$170 billion (PPP) (2014 est.)
Telecommunications in Ecuador include telephone, radio, television, and the Internet.
}}
billion (FY11) List of countries by military expenditures ranked 54th
This article deals with the diplomatic affairs, foreign policy and international relations of Ecuador.
}}
Egypt is the most populous country in the Arab World and the third-most populous on the African continent (after Nigeria and Ethiopia). About 95%  of the country's 93 million people (2017) live along the banks of the Nile and in the Nile Delta, which fans out north of Cairo; and along the Suez Canal.
The politics of Egypt is based on republicanism, with a semi-presidential system of government, established following the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, and the resignation of President Hosni Mubarak. The President is elected for two four-year terms and the Parliament is unicameral.
$330.765 billion (nominal; 2015)
Egypt has long been the cultural and informational centre of the Arab world, and Cairo is the region's largest publishing and broadcasting centre.
Transport in Egypt is centered in Cairo and largely follows the pattern of settlement along the Nile. The main line of the nation's rail system follows along the great river and is operated by Egyptian National Railways.
Foreign relations of the Arab Republic of Egypt are the Egyptian government's external relations with the outside world. Egypt's foreign policy operates along a non-aligned level.
}}
El Salvador borders the North Pacific Ocean to the south and southwest, with Guatemala to the north-northwest and Honduras to the north-northeast. In the southeast, the Golfo de Fonseca separates it from Nicaragua.
http://countrymeters.info/es/El_Salvador/
Politics of El Salvador takes place in land a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of El Salvador is both head of state and head of government, and of a Executive power is exercised by the government.
$57.28 billion (2017 est.
Telecommunications in El Salvador include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet,  centered primarily around the capital, San Salvador.
thumb|300px|The road to San Salvador, leaving from Apopa. Vertical road leads to [[Quezaltepeque, La Libertad|Quezaltepeque.
El Salvador is a member of the United Nations and several of its specialized agencies, the Organization of American States (OAS), the Central American Common Market (CACM), the Central American Parliament (PARLACEN), and the Central American Integration System (SICA). It actively participates in the Central American Security Commission (CASC), which seeks to promote regional arms control.
The History of Equatorial Guinea is marked by centuries of colonial domination by the Portuguese, British and Spanish empires, and by the local kingdoms
}}}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Equatorial Guinea, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Equatorial Guinea take place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President is both the head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Equatorial Guinea include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
right|250px
A transitional agreement, signed in October 1968, implemented a Spanish preindependence decision to assist Equatorial Guinea and provided for the temporary maintenance of Spanish forces there. A dispute with President Francisco Macías Nguema in 1969 led to a request that all Spanish troops immediately depart, and a large number of civilians left at the same time.
&quot;Eritrea&quot; is an ancient name, associated in the past with its Greek form Erythraia, Ἐρυθραία, and its derived Latin form Erythræa. This name relates to that of the Red Sea, then called the Erythræan Sea, from the Greek for &quot;red&quot;, ἐρυθρός, erythros.
Eritrea is located in the Horn of Africa and is bordered on the northeast and east by the Red Sea, on the west and northwest by Sudan, on the south by Ethiopia, and on the southeast by Djibouti. The country has a high central plateau that varies from  above sea level.
Eritrea has an estimated population of  as of . No reliable census data is available, the best available estimates being published by the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.
Politics of Eritrea takes place in a framework of a single-party presidential republic, whereby the Eritrean President is both head of state and head of government and a single-party state, led by the People's Front for Democracy and Justice. The popularly elected National Assembly of 150 seats, formed in 1993 shortly after independence, elected the current president, Isaias Afewerki.
Telecommunications in Eritrea are under the authority of the Government of Eritrea.
Transport in Eritrea includes highways, airports and seaports, in addition to various forms of public and private vehicular, maritime and aerial transportation.
The foreign relations of Eritrea are the policies of the Eritrean government by which it administers its external relations with other nations. Since its independence, Eritrea's foreign relations have been dominated by conflict and confrontation, both in the regional and international arenas.
thumb|right|300px|Map of Estonia.
The demographics of Estonia in the twenty-first century result from historical trends over more than a thousand years, as with most European countries, but have been disproportionately influenced by events in the last half of the twentieth century. The rise and fall of the Soviet Union, including the annexation and eventual independence of Estonia, has had a major effect on Estonia's ethnic makeup and educational achievement.
Politics in Estonia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Estonia is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in the Estonian parliament.
$36.947 billion (PPP, 2015 est.
}}
Transport in Estonia relies mainly on road and rail networks.
The Republic of Estonia gained its independence from the Russian Empire on 24 February 1918 and established diplomatic relations with many countries via membership of the League of Nations. The forcible incorporation of Estonia into the Soviet Union in 1940 was not generally recognised by the international community and the Estonian diplomatic service continued to operate in some countries.
}}
)
Telecommunications in Ethiopia is a monopoly in the control of Ethio Telecom, formerly the Ethiopian Telecommunications Corporation (ETC). As of 2012, 20.
Transport in Ethiopia is overseen by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Over the last years, the Ethiopian federal authorities have significantly increased funding for rail and road construction to build an infrastructure, that allows better economic development.
Many historians trace modern Ethiopia's foreign policy to the reign of Emperor Tewodros II, whose primary concerns were the security of Ethiopia's traditional borders, obtaining technology from Europe (or modernization), and to a lesser degree Ethiopian rights to the monastery of Dar-es-Sultan in the city of Jerusalem.The political history of the Ethiopian community, and their struggle for ownership of this small monastery, is retold in Chris Proutky, Empress Taytu and Menelik II (Trenton: The Red Sea Press, 1986), pp.
Europa Island () is a  low-lying tropical atoll in the Mozambique Channel, about a third of the way from southern Madagascar to southern Mozambique. The island had never been inhabited until 1820, when the French family Rosier moved to it.
Euclidean geometry is a mathematical system attributed to the Alexandrian Greek mathematician Euclid, which he described in his textbook on geometry: the Elements. Euclid's method consists in assuming a small set of intuitively appealing axioms, and deducing many other propositions (theorems) from these.
An epic poem, epic, epos, or epopee  is a lengthy narrative poem, ordinarily concerning a serious subject containing details of heroic deeds and events significant to a culture or nation.Michael Meyer, The Bedford Introduction to Literature (Bedford: St.
The Eocene () Epoch, lasting from , is a major division of the geologic timescale and the second epoch of the Paleogene Period in the Cenozoic Era. The Eocene spans the time from the end of the Paleocene Epoch to the beginning of the Oligocene Epoch.
}}
}}
Ethology is the scientific and objective study of animal behaviour, usually with a focus on behaviour under natural conditions, and viewing behaviour as an evolutionarily adaptive trait. Behaviourism is a term that also describes the scientific and objective study of animal behaviour, usually referring to measured responses to stimuli or trained behavioural responses in a laboratory context, without a particular emphasis on evolutionary adaptivity.
In physics, electromagnetic radiation (EM radiation or EMR) refers to the waves (or their quanta, photons) of the electromagnetic field, propagating (radiating) through space carrying electromagnetic radiant energy.  It includes radio waves, microwaves, infrared, (visible) light, ultraviolet, X-, and gamma radiation.
An electrical telegraph is a telegraph that uses electrical signals, usually conveyed via dedicated telecommunication lines or radio.
Event may refer to:
An establishing shot in filmmaking and television production sets up, or establishes the context for a scene by showing the relationship between its important figures and objects. It is generally a long or extreme-long shot at the beginning of a scene indicating where, and sometimes when, the remainder of the scene takes place.
The Etruscan language ()Bauer, Laurie (2007). The Linguistics Student's Handbook.
An election is a formal group decision-making process by which a population chooses an individual to hold public office.&quot;Election (political science),&quot; Encyclopedia Britanica Online.
Eric S. Raymond (born 1957) is an American computer programmer and author.
The identity of the longest word in English depends upon the definition of what constitutes a word in the English language, as well as how length should be compared. In addition to words derived naturally from the language's roots (without any known intentional invention), English allows new words to be formed by coinage and construction; place names may be considered words; technical terms may be arbitrarily long.
In Freudian psychology, externalization is an unconscious defense mechanism by which an individual &quot;projects&quot; his or her own internal characteristics onto the outside world, particularly onto other people. For example, a patient who is overly argumentative might instead perceive others as argumentative and himself as blameless.
ECB}}
,
Europium is a chemical element with symbol Eu and atomic number 63. It was isolated in 1901 and is named after the continent of Europe.
Erbium is a chemical element with symbol Er and atomic number 68. A silvery-white solid metal when artificially isolated, natural erbium is always found in chemical combination with other elements.
Einsteinium is a synthetic element with symbol Es and atomic number 99. It is the seventh transuranic element, and an actinide.
Minister President of Bavaria
Town hall, Krämerbrücke and Domplatz
East Berlin existed between 1949 and 1990 and consisted of the Soviet sector of Berlin established in 1945. The American, British, and French sectors became West Berlin, strongly associated with West Germany, while East Berlin was the de facto capital of East Germany.
This is a list of international environmental agreements.
Epsilon (uppercase , lowercase  or lunate ; ) is the fifth letter of the Greek alphabet, corresponding phonetically to a mid front unrounded vowel . In the system of Greek numerals it has the value five.
Eta (uppercase , lowercase ;  ē̂ta  or  ita ) is the seventh letter of the Greek alphabet. Originally denoting  a consonant /h/, its sound value in the classical Attic dialect of Ancient Greek was a long vowel , raised to  in hellenistic Greek, a process known as iotacism.
The Eskimo are the indigenous peoples who have traditionally inhabited the northern circumpolar region from eastern Siberia (Russia), across Alaska (United States), Canada, and Greenland.Kaplan, Lawrence.
Epiphenomenalism is a mind–body philosophy marked by the belief that basic physical events (sense organs, neural impulses, and muscle contractions) are causal with respect to mental events (thought, consciousness, and cognition). Mental events are viewed as completely dependent on physical functions and, as such, have no independent existence or causal efficacy; it is a mere appearance.
Esperantujo () or Esperantio  (meaning &quot;Esperanto-land&quot;) is the community of speakers of the constructed international auxiliary language Esperanto and their culture, as well the places and institutions where the language is used, referred to 'as if it were a country'.(angla) Though [refers only to Poland as a country for Esperanto-speakers, Esperanto is to be considered as a transnational language.
Ethernet  is a family of computer networking technologies commonly used in local area networks (LAN), metropolitan area networks (MAN) and wide area networks (WAN).  It was commercially introduced in 1980 and first standardized in 1983 as IEEE 802.
Some of the most important explorations of State Societies, in chronological order:
, 4,411 named contributors
The endometrium is the inner epithelial layer, along with its mucous membrane, of the mammalian uterus.  It has a basal layer and a functional layer; the functional layer thickens and then is sloughed during the menstrual cycle or estrous cycle.
Electronic music is music that employs electronic musical instruments, digital instruments and circuitry-based music technology. An electronic musician is a musician who composes or performs such music.
1863) of a black man reading a newspaper with headline &quot;Presidential Proclamation/Slavery&quot;.
Electrical engineering is a field of engineering that generally deals with the study and application of electricity, electronics, and electromagnetism. This field first became an identifiable occupation in the later half of the 19th century after commercialization of the electric telegraph, the telephone, and electric power distribution and use.
Electromagnetism is a branch of physics involving the study of the electromagnetic force, a type of physical interaction that occurs between electrically charged particles. The electromagnetic force usually exhibits electromagnetic fields such as electric fields, magnetic fields, and light and is one of the four fundamental interactions (commonly called forces) in nature.
A euphemism  is a generally innocuous word or expression used in place of one that may be found offensive or suggest something unpleasant. Some euphemisms are intended to amuse; while others use bland, inoffensive terms for things the user wishes to downplay.
National Archive documents
Electricity generation is the process of generating electric power from sources of primary energy. For electric utilities, it is the first process in the delivery of electricity to consumers.
}}
Empirical research is research using empirical evidence. It is a way of gaining people by means of direct and indirect observation or experience.
Engineering statistics combines engineering and statistics:Hogg, Robert V. and Ledolter, J.
Electricity is the set of  physical phenomena associated with the presence of electric charge. Although initially considered a phenomenon separate from magnetism, since the development of Maxwell's equations, both are recognized as part of a single phenomenon: electromagnetism.
Empedocles (;  , Empedoklēs; c. 490 – c.
The Ericaceae are a family of flowering plants, commonly known as the heath or heather family, found most commonly in acid and infertile growing conditions. The family is large, with c.
An electrical network is an interconnection of electrical components (e.g.
*Leonhard Euler (1707–1783) was a Swiss mathematician and physicist.
In mathematics, and more specifically set theory, the empty set is the unique set having no elements; its size or cardinality (count of elements in a set) is zero. Some axiomatic set theories ensure that the empty set exists by including an axiom of empty set; in other theories, its existence can be deduced.
Egoism is an ethical theory that treats self-interest as the foundation of morality.https://en.
Endomorphic}}
EFTA is the European Free Trade Association, a trade organisation and free trade area.
The European Council (), charged with defining the European Union's (EU) overall political direction and priorities, is the institution of the EU that comprises the heads of state or government of the member states, along with the President of the European Council and the President of the European Commission. The High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy also takes part in its meetings.
Euthanasia (from ; &quot;good death&quot;: εὖ, eu; &quot;well&quot; or &quot;good&quot; – θάνατος, thanatos; &quot;death&quot;) is the practice of intentionally ending a life in order to relieve pain and suffering.
Extraterrestrial life,Where &quot;extraterrestrial&quot; is derived from the Latin extra (&quot;beyond&quot;, &quot;not of&quot;) and [(&quot;of Earth]&quot;, &quot;belonging to Earth&quot;). also called alien life (or, if it is a [[Sentience|sentient or relatively complex individual, an &quot;extraterrestrial&quot; or &quot;alien&quot;), is life that does not originate from Earth.
European Strategic Program on Research in Information Technology (ESPRIT) was a series of integrated programmes of information technology research and development projects and industrial technology transfer measures. It was a European Union initiative managed by the Directorate General for Industry (DG III) of the European Commission.
Existentialism ()Oxford University Press, &quot;Oxford Dictionary: 'existentialism'&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, Retrieved 22 August 2014. is the work associated mainly with certain late-19th- and 20th-century European philosophers who, despite profound doctrinal differences,John Macquarrie, Existentialism, New York (1972), pp.
An ellipsis (plural ellipses; from the , élleipsis, &quot;omission&quot; or &quot;[short]&quot;) is a series of dots (typically three, such as &quot;…&quot;) that usually indicates an intentional omission of a word, sentence, or whole section from a text without altering its original meaning.
The Enola Gay () is a Boeing B-29 Superfortress bomber, named for Enola Gay Tibbets, the mother of the pilot, Colonel Paul Tibbets, who selected the aircraft while it was still on the assembly line. On 6 August 1945, during the final stages of World War II, it became the first aircraft to drop an atomic bomb.
In physics, the electronvoltIUPAC Gold Book, p. 75SI brochure, Sec.
Electrochemistry is the branch of physical chemistry that studies the relationship between electricity, as a measurable and quantitative phenomenon, and identifiable chemical change, with either electricity considered an outcome of a particular chemical change or vice versa. These reactions involve electric charges moving between electrodes and an electrolyte (or ionic species in a solution).
The many-worlds interpretation is an interpretation of quantum mechanics that asserts the objective reality of the universal wavefunction and denies the actuality of wavefunction collapse. Many-worlds implies that all possible alternate histories and futures are real, each representing an actual &quot;world&quot; (or &quot;universe&quot;).
E-commerce is a transaction of buying or selling online. Electronic commerce draws on technologies such as mobile commerce, electronic funds transfer, supply chain management, Internet marketing, online transaction processing, electronic data interchange (EDI), inventory management systems, and automated data collection systems.
Euler's formula, named after Leonhard Euler, is a mathematical formula in complex analysis that establishes the fundamental relationship between the trigonometric functions and the complex exponential function. Euler's formula states that, for any real number :
An evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS) is a strategy which, if adopted by a population in a given environment, cannot be invaded by any alternative strategy that is initially rare.  It is relevant in game theory, behavioural ecology, and evolutionary psychology.
Element(s) often refers to the elements of chemistry, each a pure substance of one type of atom, which together make up all the matter in the universe.
An extremophile (from Latin  meaning &quot;extreme&quot; and Greek  () meaning &quot;love&quot;) is an organism that thrives in physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to most life on Earth. In contrast, organisms that live in more moderate environments may be termed mesophiles or neutrophiles.
Education reform is the name given to the goal of changing public education. Historically, reforms have taken different forms because the motivations of reformers have differed.
Enlil (}} , &quot;Lord Storm&quot;) was the ancient Mesopotamian god of wind, air, earth, and storms. He was originally the chief deity of the Sumerian pantheon, but he was later worshipped by the Akkadians, Babylonians, Assyrians, and Hurrians.
Ecology (from , &quot;house&quot;, or &quot;environment&quot;; -λογία, &quot;study of&quot;) is the scientific analysis and study of interactions among organisms and their environment. It is an interdisciplinary field that includes biology, geography, and Earth science.
An alphabetic list of modern Country dance terminology;
thumb|[[Coral reefs are a highly productive marine ecosystem.]]
The number  is a mathematical constant that is the base of the natural logarithm: the unique number whose natural logarithm is equal to one. It is approximately equal to 2.
In mathematics, the Euler–Maclaurin formula provides a powerful connection between integrals (see calculus) and sums.  It can be used to approximate integrals by finite sums, or conversely to evaluate finite sums and infinite series using integrals and the machinery of calculus.
The Epimenides paradox reveals a problem with self-reference in logic.
An engine or motor is a machine designed to convert one form of energy into mechanical energy.Dictionary.
}}
Ev or EV may refer to:
In physics, energy is the property that must be transferred to an object in order to perform work on, or to heat, the object.The second law of thermodynamics imposes limitations on the capacity of a system to transfer energy by performing work, since some of the system's energy might necessarily be &quot;consumed&quot; in the form of heat instead.
In probability theory, the expected value of a random variable, intuitively, is the long-run average value of repetitions of the experiment it represents. For example, the expected value in rolling a six-sided die is 3.
An electric light is a device that produces visible light from electric current. It is the most common form of artificial lighting and is essential to modern society, providing interior lighting for buildings and exterior light for evening and nighttime activities.
Euler's conjecture is a disproved conjecture in mathematics related to Fermat's last theorem.  It was proposed by Leonhard Euler in 1769.
The Book of Exodus or, simply, Exodus (from , éxodos, meaning &quot;going out&quot;; , Shəmōṯ, &quot;Names&quot;, the second word of the beginning of the text: &quot;These are the names of the sons of Israel&quot; ), is the second book of the Torah and the Hebrew Bible (the Old Testament).Dozeman, p.
Electronics is the science of controlling electrical energy electrically, in which the electrons have a fundamental role. Electronics deals with electrical circuits that involve active electrical components such as vacuum tubes, transistors, diodes, integrated circuits, optoelectronics, sensors etc.
Erewhon: or, Over the Range In the preface to the first edition of his book, Butler specified that &quot;The Author wishes it to be understood that Erewhon is pronounced as a word of three syllables, all short—thus, Ĕ-rĕ-whŏn.&quot; Nevertheless, the word is occasionally pronounced with two syllables as &quot;air-hwun&quot; or &quot;air-one&quot;.
An ectopia () is a displacement or malposition of an organ or other body part, which is then referred to as ectopic (). Most ectopias are congenital, but some may happen later in life.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) (ento = interior, rhino = nose, entorhinal = interior to the rhinal sulcus) is an area of the brain located in the medial temporal lobe and functioning as a hub in a widespread network for memory and navigation. The EC is the main interface between the hippocampus and neocortex.
Evolutionism was a common 19th century belief that organisms inherently improve themselves through progressive inherited change over time, and increase in complexity through evolution. The belief went on to include cultural evolution and social evolution.
In mathematics and computer science, the  (, German for &quot;decision problem&quot;) is a challenge posed by David Hilbert in 1928.Hilbert and Ackermann The problem asks for an algorithm that takes as input a statement of a first-order logic (possibly with a finite number of axioms beyond the usual axioms of first-order logic) and answers &quot;Yes&quot; or &quot;No&quot; according to whether the statement is universally valid, i.
thumb|250px|right|Einhard as scribe
130px|thumb|A carboxylate ester. R and R′ denote any [[alkyl or aryl group.
An endosymbiont or endobiont is any organism that lives to mutual benefit within the body or cells of another organism, i.e.
 abx|functions of the form f(x,y)  xy|Exponentiation|functions of the form f(x)  xr|Power function}}
Erasmus Alberus (c. 1500 – 5 May 1553) was a German humanist, Lutheran reformer, and poet.
In computer science, the Earley parser is an algorithm for parsing strings that belong to a given context-free language, though (depending on the variant) it may suffer problems with certain nullable grammars. The algorithm, named after its inventor, Jay Earley, is a chart parser that uses dynamic programming; it is mainly used for parsing in computational linguistics.
Ethiopian cuisine () characteristically consists of vegetable and often very spicy meat dishes. This is usually in the form of wat, a thick stew, served atop injera, a large sourdough flatbread,Javins, Marie.
The Epistle of James (), the Book of James, or simply James, is one of the twenty-one epistles (didactic letters) in the New Testament.
The Epistle of Jude, often shortened to Jude, is the next-to-last book of the New Testament and is attributed to Jude, the servant of Jesus and the brother of James the Just.
Eusebius Amort (November 15, 1692 – February 5, 1775) was a German Roman Catholic theologian.
(singular: , Latin for wandering bishops or stray bishops) are those persons consecrated, in a &quot;clandestine or irregular way,&quot; as Christian bishops outside the structures and canon law of the established churches; those regularly consecrated but later excommunicated, and not in communion with any generally recognized diocese; and those who have in communion with them small groups that appear to exist solely for the bishop's sake. David V.
In earth science, erosion is the action of surface processes (such as water flow or wind) that remove soil, rock, or dissolved material from one location on the Earth's crust, then transport it away to another location. The particulate breakdown of rock or soil into clastic sediment is referred to as physical or mechanical erosion; this contrasts with chemical erosion, where soil or rock material is removed from an area by its dissolving into a solvent (typically water), followed by the flow away of that solution.
}}
Evolutionary psychology is a theoretical approach in the social and natural sciences that examines psychological structure from a modern evolutionary perspective. It seeks to identify which human psychological traits are evolved adaptations – that is, the functional products of natural selection or sexual selection in human evolution.
Most  languages of Europe belong to the Indo-European language family.
thumb|Electrostatic Potential Map|300px|right|Electrostatic potential map of a water molecule, where the oxygen atom has a more negative charge (red) than the positive (blue) hydrogen atoms
The European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages (ECRML) is a European treaty (CETS 148) adopted in 1992  under the auspices of the Council of Europe to protect and promote historical regional and minority languages in Europe. The preparation for the charter was undertaken by the predecessor to the current Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, the Standing Conference of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe because involvement of local and regional government was essential.
}}
ERP or Erp may refer to:
This is a list of English-language poets, who wrote or write much of their poetry in English.
Excalibur, or Caliburn, is the legendary sword of King Arthur, sometimes also attributed with magical powers or associated with the rightful sovereignty of Great Britain. Sometimes Excalibur and the Sword in the Stone (the proof of Arthur's lineage) are said to be the same weapon, but in most versions they are considered separate.
thumb|right|350px|Typical [[boogie-woogie|boogie woogie bassline on 8 bar blues progression in C, chord roots in red. ]]
Echidnas are Australian egg-laying mammals also known as spiny anteaters.
Eden Phillpotts (4 November 1862 – 29 December 1960) was an English author, poet and dramatist. He was born in Mount Abu, British India, educated in Plymouth, Devon, and worked as an insurance officer for 10 years before studying for the stage and eventually becoming a writer.
The Republic of Ecuador and the United States of America maintained close ties based on mutual interests in maintaining democratic institutions; combating cannabisecuador and cocaine; building trade, investment, and financial ties; cooperating in fostering Ecuador's economic development; and participating in inter-American organizations. Ties are further strengthened by the presence of an estimated 150,000-200,000 Ecuadorians living in the United States and by 24,000 U.
Eight-ball (often spelled 8-ball or eightball, and sometimes called solids and stripes, spots and stripes in the UK or, more rarely, bigs and littles/smalls, highs and lows, halves and wholes) is a poolgame popular in much of the world, and the subject of international professional and amateur competition. Played on a pool table with six pockets, the game is so universally known in some countries that beginners are often unaware of other pool games and believe the word &quot;pool&quot; itself refers to eight-ball.
Earned value management (EVM), or Earned Value Project/Performance Management (EVPM) is a project management technique for measuring project performance and progress in an objective manner.
An electron microscope is a microscope that uses a beam of accelerated electrons as a source of illumination. As the wavelength of an electron can be up to 100,000 times shorter than that of visible light photons, electron microscopes have a higher resolving power than light microscopes and can reveal the structure of smaller objects.
Since 1500, over 190 species of birds have become extinct, and this rate of extinction seems to be increasing. The situation is exemplified by Hawaii, where 30% of all known recently extinct bird taxa originally lived.
Eli Whitney (December 8, 1765 – January 8, 1825) was an American inventor best known for inventing the cotton gin.  This was one of the key inventions of the Industrial Revolution and shaped the economy of the Antebellum South.
The American Prisoner is a British novel written by Eden Phillpotts and published in 1904
An electromagnetic field (also EMF or EM field) is a physical field produced by electrically charged objects. It affects the behavior of charged objects in the vicinity of the field.
Eugenics (; from Greek εὐγενής eugenes &quot;well-born&quot; from εὖ eu, &quot;good, well&quot; and γένος genos, &quot;race, stock, kin&quot;)&quot;eugenics&quot;. Online Etymology Dictionary.
Electronic mail (email or e-mail) is a method of exchanging messages between people using electronics. Email first entered substantial use in the 1960s and by the mid-1970s had taken the form now recognized as email.
An emoticon (,  or ) is a pictorial representation of a facial expression using punctuation marks, numbers and letters, usually written to express a person's feelings or mood.
Epoch or EPOCH may refer to:
The Erdős number () describes the &quot;collaborative distance&quot; between mathematician  and another person, as measured by authorship of mathematical papers.
}}
In the Latter Day Saint movement, an evangelist is an ordained office of the ministry. In some denominations of the movement, an evangelist is referred to as a patriarch.
The elegiac couplet is a poetic form used by Greek lyric poets for a variety of themes usually of smaller scale than the epic.  Roman poets, particularly Propertius, Tibullus  and Ovid, adopted the same form in Latin many years later.
The exabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. In the International System of Units (SI), the prefix exa indicates multiplication by the sixth power of 1000 (1018).
An era is a span of time defined for the purposes of chronology or historiography, as in the regnal eras in the history of a given monarchy, a calendar era used for a given calendar, or the geological eras defined for the history of Earth.
Eschatology  is a part of theology concerned with the final events of history, or the ultimate destiny of humanity. This concept is commonly referred to as the &quot;end of the world&quot; or &quot;end time&quot;.
An ecumenical council (or oecumenical council; also general council)Encyclopædia Britannica, &quot;Council&quot; is a conference of ecclesiastical dignitaries and theological experts convened to discuss and settle matters of Church doctrine and practice in which those entitled to vote are convoked from the whole world (oikoumene) and which secures the approbation of the whole Church.
1911
Equúleus, genitive
The name “Eridanus” can refer to:
The Eucharist  (also called Holy Communion or the Lord's Supper, among other names) is a Christian rite that is considered a sacrament in most churches and an ordinance in others. According to the New Testament, the rite was instituted by Jesus Christ during his Last Supper; giving his disciples bread and wine during the Passover meal, Jesus commanded his followers to &quot;do this in memory of me&quot; while referring to the bread as &quot;my body&quot; and the wine as &quot;my blood&quot;.
An eclipse is an astronomical event that occurs when an astronomical object is temporarily obscured, either by passing into the shadow of another body or by having another body pass between it and the viewer. This alignment of three celestial objects is known as a syzygy.
Extended Binary Coded Decimal Interchange Code (EBCDIC |url=https://books.google.
thumb|300px|Micrograph of rough endoplasmic reticulum network around the [[Cell nucleus|nucleus (shown in lower right-hand side of the picture). Dark small circles in the network are mitochondria.
An enemy or foe is an individual or group that is seen as forcefully adverse or threatening.
Executive Order 9066 was a United States presidential executive order signed and issued during World War II by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt on February 19, 1942.
Earthdawn is a fantasy role-playing game, originally produced by FASA in 1993. In 1999 it was licensed to Living Room Games, which produced the Second Edition.
}}
Extravehicular activity (EVA) is any activity done by an astronaut or cosmonaut outside a spacecraft beyond the Earth's appreciable atmosphere. The term most commonly applies to a spacewalk made outside a craft orbiting Earth (such as the International Space Station), but also has applied to lunar surface exploration (commonly known as moonwalks) performed by six pairs of American astronauts in the Apollo program from 1969 to 1972.
Electric charge is the physical property of matter that causes it to experience a force when placed in an electromagnetic field. There are two types of electric charges: positive and negative (commonly carried by protons and electrons respectively).
}}
An extinction event (also known as a mass extinction or biotic crisis) is a widespread and rapid decrease in the biodiversity on Earth. Such an event is identified by a sharp change in the diversity and abundance of multicellular organisms.
Quintus Ennius (; c. 239 – c.
Electronic may refer to:
Eris (; , &quot;Strife&quot;)Of uncertain etymology; connections with the verb ὀρίνειν orinein, &quot;to raise, stir, excite,&quot; and the proper name Ἐρινύες Erinyes have been suggested; R. S.
Enlightenment, enlighten or enlightened may refer to:
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture.  Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion.
In computer engineering, an execution unit (also called a functional unit) is a part of the central processing unit (CPU) that performs the operations and calculations as instructed by the computer program. It may have its own internal control sequence unit, which is not to be confused with the CPU's main control unit, some registers, and other internal units such as an arithmetic logic unit (ALU), address generation unit (AGU), floating-point unit (FPU), load-store unit (LSU) or some smaller and more specific components.
The European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) (formally the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms) is an international treaty to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe.  Drafted in 1950 by the then newly formed Council of Europe,The Council of Europe should not be confused with the Council of the European Union or the European Council.
Ecclesia (Greek: ἐκκλησία ekklēsia) may refer to:
Colony of Victoria
Ezra (; , ;&quot;God helps&quot; — Emil G. Hirsch, Isaac Broydé, &quot;Ezra the Scribe&quot;, Jewish Encyclopedia (Online) fl.
Elijah (|Eliyahu}}, meaning &quot;My God is Yahu/Jah&quot;New Bible Dictionary. 1982 (second edition). Tyndale Press, Wheaton, IL, US. , p. 319 entry &quot;Elijah&quot;) or Elias (;   Elías;  Elyāe; Arabic: إلياس or إليا, Ilyās or Ilyā) was a prophet and a miracle worker who lived in the northern kingdom of Israel during the reign of Ahab (9th century BC), according to the Books of Kings in the Hebrew Bible. In 1 Kings 18, Elijah defended the worship of the Jewish God over that of the Canaanite deity Baal. God also performed many miracles through Elijah, including resurrection (raising the dead), bringing fire down from the sky, and entering Heaven alive &quot;by a whirlwind&quot;. He is also portrayed as leading a school of prophets known as &quot;the sons of the prophets&quot;.2 Kings 2:3 After his death, Elisha his disciple and most devoted assistant took over his role as leader of this school. The Book of Malachi prophesies Elijah's return &quot;before the coming of the great and terrible day of the LORD&quot;, making him a harbinger of the 
Efes}}
Elbing is the German name of Elbląg, a city in northern Poland which until 1945 was a German city in the province of East Prussia.
thumb|[[Dante in Exile by ]]
ESR may refer to:
Europe of Democracies and Diversities (EDD) was a Eurosceptic political group with seats in the European Parliament between 1999 and 2004. Following the 2004 European elections, the group reformed as Independence/Democracy (IND/DEM).
(20 July 1999 to 22 June 2009)EPP(17 July 1979
(majority)Communism (minority)Soft Euroscepticismhttp://www.bbc.
The European Democrats was a loose association of conservative political parties in Europe.  It was a political group in the European Parliament from 1979 until 1992, when it became a subgroup of the European People's Party–European Democrats (EPP-ED) group.
The Epistle to the Ephesians, also called the Letter to the Ephesians and often shortened to Ephesians, is the tenth book of the New Testament. Its authorship has traditionally been credited to Paul the Apostle but, starting in 1792, this has been challengedAuthenticity of EphesiansHoehner, Harold.
Electric bus is a bus powered by electric energy. &quot;Electric bus&quot; can also refer to:
An exploit (from the English verb to exploit, meaning &quot;to use something to one’s own advantage&quot;) is a piece of software, a chunk of data, or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer software, hardware, or something electronic (usually computerized). Such behavior frequently includes things like gaining control of a computer system, allowing privilege escalation, or a denial-of-service (DoS or related DDoS) attack.
The erg is a unit of energy and work equal to 10−7 joules. It originated in the centimetre–gram–second (CGS) system of units.
Everway is a fantasy role-playing game  first published by Wizards of the Coast under their Alter Ego brand in the mid-1990s. Its lead designer was Jonathan Tweet.
Eurocard is a European standard format for PCB cards that can be plugged together into a standardized subrack. The subrack consists of a series of slotted card guides on the top and bottom, into which the cards are slid so they stand on end, like books on a shelf.
Electron counting is a formalism used for classifying compounds and for explaining or predicting electronic structure and bonding.  Many rules in chemistry rely on electron-counting:
In statistical mechanics, entropy (usual symbol ) is related to the number of microscopic configurations  that a thermodynamic system can have when in a state as specified by some macroscopic variables. Specifically, assuming for simplicity that each of the microscopic configurations is equally probable, the entropy of the system is the natural logarithm of that number of configurations, multiplied by the Boltzmann constant .
An expert is someone who has a prolonged or intense experience through practice and education in a particular field. Informally, an expert is someone widely recognized as a reliable source of [or skill] whose faculty for judging or deciding rightly, justly, or wisely is accorded authority and status by [[Peer group|peers or the public in a specific well-distinguished domain.
An elf (plural: elves) is a type of human-shaped supernatural being in Germanic mythology and folklore.Lass 1994, p.
Evil, in a general context is the absence or opposite of that which is described as being good. Often, evil denotes profound immorality.
The Epistle to the Hebrews, or Letter to the Hebrews, or in the Greek manuscripts, simply To the Hebrews ( Πρὸς Έβραίους)The Greek New Testament, Edited by Kurt Aland, Matthew Black, Carlo M. Martini, Bruce M.
479 BCE - 465 BCE
Entamoeba is a genus of Amoebozoa found as internal parasites or commensals of animals.
In physics and thermodynamics, an equation of state is a thermodynamic equation relating state variables which describes the state of matter under a given set of physical conditions. It is a constitutive equation which provides a mathematical relationship between two or more state functions associated with the matter, such as its temperature, pressure, volume, or internal energy.
Ecclesiastes  (; Greek: Ἐκκλησιαστής, Ekklēsiastēs, , qōheleṯ) is one of 24 books of the Tanakh or Hebrew Bible, where it is classified as one of the Ketuvim (or &quot;Writings&quot;). It is among the canonical Wisdom Books in the Old Testament of most denominations of Christianity.
Ezekiel (; , Y'ḥez'qel, ) is the central protagonist of the Book of Ezekiel in the Hebrew Bible.
, , , , , , ,  and
The Explorers program is a United States space exploration program that provides flight opportunities for physics, geophysics, heliophysics, and astrophysics investigations from space.  Over 90 space missions have been launched since 1958, and it is still active.
An electronic oscillator is an electronic circuit that produces a periodic, oscillating electronic signal, often a sine wave or a square wave.  Oscillators convert direct current (DC) from a power supply to an alternating current (AC) signal.
A societas Europaea ( SE; Latin: European society or company; plural: societates Europaeae) is a public company registered in accordance with the corporate law of the European Union (EU), introduced in 2004 with the Council Regulation on the Statute for a European Company.2157/2001 Such a company may more easily transfer to, or merge with companies in, other member states.
An electronic mixer is a device that combines two or more electrical or electronic signals into one or two composite output signals. There are two basic circuits that both use the term mixer, but they are very different types of circuits: additive mixers and multiplicative mixers.
Eubulides (; fl. 4th century BCE) of Miletus was a philosopher of the Megarian school, and a pupil of Euclid of Megara.
The endomembrane system is composed of the different membranes that are suspended in the cytoplasm within a eukaryotic cell. These membranes divide the cell into functional and structural compartments, or organelles.
Ethnology (from the Greek ἔθνος, ethnos meaning &quot;nation&quot;) is the branch of anthropology that compares and analyzes the characteristics of different peoples and the relationship between them (cf. cultural, social, or sociocultural anthropology).
In cooking, espagnole sauce () is one of Auguste Escoffier's five mother sauces that are the basis of sauce-making in classic French cooking.  This type of sauce were already compiled in different Spanish cooking handbooks of the late 19th century.
An amplifier, electronic amplifier or (informally) amp is an electronic device that can increase the power of a signal (a time-varying voltage or current). An amplifier uses electric power from a power supply to increase the amplitude of a signal.
thumb|300px|Escort carrier
Extreme sports are recreational activities perceived as involving a high degree of risk. These activities often involve speed, height, a high level of physical exertion, and highly specialized gear.
The kingdom of the East Saxons (; ), today referred to as the Kingdom of Essex, was one of the seven traditional kingdoms of the Anglo-Saxon Heptarchy.The Latin name was used, for instance, by William of Malmesbury.
Eve is the first woman created by God according to the creation narrative of Abrahamic religions.
Æthelberht (; also Æthelbert, Aethelberht, Aethelbert, or Ethelbert, Old English Æðelberht, ;  560 – 24 February 616) was King of Kent from about 589 until his death. The eighth-century monk Bede,  in his Ecclesiastical History of the English People, lists him as the third king to hold imperium over other Anglo-Saxon kingdoms.
The Epistle to the Galatians, often shortened to Galatians, is the ninth book of the New Testament. It is a letter from Paul the Apostle to a number of Early Christian communities in Galatia.
The Epistle of Paul and Timothy to the Philippians, often referred to simply as Philippians, is the eleventh book in the New Testament. Paul and Timothy first visited Philippi in Greece during Paul's second missionary journey, which occurred between approximately 49 and 51 AD.
The Epistle of Paul to the Colossians, usually referred to simply as Colossians, is the twelfth book of the New Testament.  It was written, according to the text, by Paul the Apostle and Timothy to the Church in Colossae, a small Phrygian city near Laodicea and approximately 100 miles (160 km) from Ephesus in Asia Minor.
The First Epistle to the Thessalonians, usually referred to simply as First Thessalonians (written 1 Thessalonians and abbreviated 1 Thess.Chicago Manual of Style, 16th Ed.
The Epistle of Paul to Titus, usually referred to simply as Titus, is one of the three Pastoral Epistles (along with 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy) traditionally attributed to Paul the Apostle and is part of the New Testament. It is addressed to Saint Titus and describes the requirements and duties of elders and bishops.
Nitrox refers to any gas mixture composed (excepting trace gases) of nitrogen and oxygen. This includes atmospheric air, which is approximately 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and 1% other gases, primarily argon.
In integral calculus, elliptic integrals originally arose in connection with the problem of giving the arc length of an ellipse.  They were first studied by Giulio Fagnano and Leonhard Euler ().
The Epistle to the Romans or Letter to the Romans, often shortened to Romans, is the sixth book in the New Testament. Biblical scholars agree that it was composed by the Apostle Paul to explain that salvation is offered through the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The Epistle of Paul to Philemon, known simply as Philemon, is one of the books of the Christian New Testament. It is a prison letter, co-authored by Paul the Apostle with Timothy, to Philemon, a leader in the Colossian church.
Elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) is an approach to public-key cryptography based on the algebraic structure of elliptic curves over finite fields. ECC requires smaller keys compared to non-ECC cryptography (based on plain Galois fields) to provide equivalent security.
EDM or E-DM may refer to:
The Eightfold Path is a method of policy analysis assembled by Eugene Bardach, a professor at the Goldman School of Public Policy at the University of California, Berkeley. Emeritus Professor of Public Policy|url=https://gspp.
Linear filters process time-varying input signals to produce output signals, subject to the constraint of linearity. This results from systems composed solely of components (or digital algorithms) classified as having a linear response.
The ergative case (abbreviated ) is the grammatical case that identifies the noun  as a subject of a transitive verb in ergative–absolutive languages.
Ewe or EWE may refer to:
The Essenes (in Modern Hebrew: , Isiyim; Greek: Ἐσσηνοί, Ἐσσαῖοι, or Ὀσσαῖοι, Essenoi, Essaioi, Ossaioi) were a sect of  Second Temple Judaism that flourished from the 2nd century BCE to the 1st century CE which some scholars claim seceded from the Zadokite priests.F.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to education:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to engineering:
The following outline provides an overview of and topical guide to entertainment and the entertainment industry:
The following is a list of contemporary ethnic groups.
&quot;Edda&quot; (; Old Norse Edda,  plural Eddur) is an Old Norse term that has been attributed by modern scholars to the collective of two Medieval Icelandic literary works: what is now known as the Prose Edda and an older collection of poems without an original title now known as the Poetic Edda. The term historically referred only to the Prose Edda, but this sense has fallen out of use because of the confusion with the other work.
The term ephemeris time (often abbreviated ET) can in principle refer to time in connection with any astronomical ephemeris. In practice it has been used more specifically to refer to:
Embroidery is the handicraft of decorating fabric or other materials using a needle to apply thread or yarn.
Eiffel may refer to:
thumb|right|250px|Current (left) logo of the conference centre and logo (right) of the original museum.
Educational essentialism is an educational philosophy whose adherents believe that children should learn the traditional basic subjects thoroughly. In this philosophical school of thought, the aim is to instill students with the &quot;essentials&quot; of academic knowledge, enacting a back-to-basics approach.
Progressive education is a pedagogical movement that began in the late nineteenth century; it has persisted in various forms to the present. The term progressive was engaged to distinguish this education from the traditional Euro-American curricula of the 19th century, which was rooted in classical preparation for the university and strongly differentiated by social class.
thumb|[[Ondes Martenot created by Maurice Martenot, 1928]]
An electrode is an electrical conductor used to make contact with a nonmetallic part of a circuit (e.g.
An epistolary novel  is a novel written as a series of documents. The usual form is letters, although diary entries, newspaper clippings and other documents are sometimes used.
Evidence-based medicine (EBM) is an approach to medical practice intended to optimize decision-making by emphasizing the use of evidence from well-designed and well-conducted research. Although all medicine based on science has some degree of empirical support, EBM goes further, classifying evidence by its epistemologic strength and requiring that only the strongest types (coming from meta-analyses, systematic reviews, and randomized controlled trials) can yield strong recommendations; weaker types (such as from case-control studies) can yield only weak recommendations.
The end zone is the scoring area on the field, according to gridiron-based codes of football. It is the area between the end line and goal line bounded by the sidelines.
Ettore Ximenes (April 11, 1855, Palermo  – December 20, 1926, Rome) was an Italian sculptor.
Educational perennialism is a normative educational philosophy. Perennialists believe that one should teach the things that are of everlasting pertinence to all people everywhere, and that the emphasis should be on principles, not facts.
*Council of Europe*}}
This timeline of the evolutionary history of life represents the current scientific theory outlining the major events during the development of life on planet Earth. In biology, evolution is any change across successive generations in the heritable characteristics of biological populations.
,studio of Joshua Reynolds
Early music is music, especially Western art music, composed prior to the Classical era.Michael Kennedy, &quot;Early Music&quot;&quot;, in The Oxford Dictionary of Music, second revised edition, Associate Editor Joyce Bourne.
Elfenland is a German-style board game designed by Alan R. Moon and published by Amigo Spiele in German and Rio Grande Games in English in 1998.
Euroscepticism (also known as EU-scepticism,&quot;EU-Scepticism vs. Euroscepticism.
EAN may refer to:
In statistics, an estimator is a rule for calculating an estimate of a given quantity based on observed data: thus the rule (the estimator), the quantity of interest (the estimand) and its result (the estimate) are distinguished.
Emerald is a gemstone and a variety of the mineral beryl (Be3Al2(SiO3)6) colored green by trace amounts of chromium and sometimes vanadium.Hurlbut, Cornelius S.
E2, e2, E02, E.II, e² or E-2 may refer to:
Etiology (; alternatively aetiology or ætiology) is the study of causation, or origination. The word is derived from the Greek , aitiologia, &quot;giving a reason for&quot; (, aitia, &quot;cause&quot;; and , [book | title = Aetiology | work = Oxford English Dictionary | edition = 2nd | year = 2002 | publisher = Oxford University Press | isbn = 0-19-521942-2}} The word is most commonly used in medical and philosophical theories, where it is used to refer to the study of why things occur, or even the reasons behind the way that things act, and is used in philosophy], [[physics, psychology, government, geography, spatial analysis, medicine, theology, and biology in reference to the causes of various phenomena.
In chemistry, the empirical formula of a chemical compound is the simplest positive integer ratio of atoms present in a compound. A simple example of this concept is that the empirical formula of sulfur monoxide, or SO, would simply be SO, as is the empirical formula of disulfur dioxide, S2O2.
An episcopal polity is a hierarchical form of church governance (&quot;ecclesiastical polity&quot;) in which the chief local authorities are called bishops. (The word &quot;bishop&quot; derives, via the British Latin and Vulgar Latin term *ebiscopus/*biscopus, from the Ancient Greek  epískopos meaning &quot;overseer&quot;.
Episcopal and episcopalian may refer to:
Epicurus ( or ; , &quot;ally, comrade&quot;; 341–270 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher who founded the school of philosophy called Epicureanism. Only a few fragments and letters of Epicurus's 300 written works remain.
An epitaph (from Greek  epitaphios &quot;a funeral oration&quot; from ἐπί epi &quot;at, over&quot; and τάφος taphos &quot;tomb&quot;) is a short text honouring a deceased person. Strictly speaking, it refers to text that is inscribed on a tombstone or plaque, but it may also be used in a figurative sense.
}}
1099
In poetry, enjambment (; from the French enjambement) is incomplete syntax at the end of a line; the meaning runs over from one poetic line to the next, without terminal punctuation. Lines without enjambment are end-stopped.
The European Convention on Nationality (E.T.
English orthography is the system of writing conventions used to represent spoken English in written form that allows readers to connect spelling to sound to meaning.
thumb|275px|alt=image of a middle aged man in late Victorian clothes, viewed in right semi-profile. He has a prominent Roman nose and large moustache|Edward Elgar, c.
thumb|right|Official emblem of the European Investment Fund
European Economic Community
Environmental law, also known as environmental and natural resources law, is a collective term describing the network of treaties, statutes, regulations, common and customary laws addressing the effects of human activity on the natural environment. The core environmental law regimes address environmental pollution.
An equinox is the moment in which the plane of Earth's equator passes through the center of the Sun's disk, which occurs twice each year, around 20 March and 23 September.
In particle physics, the electroweak interaction is the unified description of two of the four known  fundamental interactions of nature: electromagnetism and the weak interaction. Although these two forces appear very different at everyday low energies, the theory models them as two different aspects of the same force.
Elara may refer to one of the following:
An earthquake (also known as a quake, tremor or temblor) is the shaking of the surface of the Earth, resulting from the sudden release of energy in the Earth's lithosphere that creates seismic waves. Earthquakes can range in size from those that are so weak that they cannot be felt to those violent enough to toss people around and destroy whole cities.
}}
An emperor (through Old French empereor from Latin imperator) is a monarch, usually the sovereign ruler of an empire or another type of imperial realm.  Empress, the female equivalent, may indicate an emperor's wife (empress consort), mother (empress dowager), or a woman who rules in her own right (empress regnant).
Egalitarianism () – or equalitarianism – is a school of thought that prioritizes equality for all people.Egalitarian | Define Egalitarian at Dictionary.
}}
Endocytosis is a form of active transport in which a cell transports molecules (such as proteins) into the cell ([+ cytosis]) by engulfing them in an [[energy-using process. Endocytosis and its counterpart, exocytosis, are used by all cells because most chemical substances important to them are large polar molecules that cannot pass through the hydrophobic plasma or cell membrane by passive means.
Ezra Abbot (April 28, 1819, Jackson, MaineMarch 21, 1884, Cambridge, Massachusetts) was an American biblical scholar.Chambers Biographical Dictionary, , page 2
Epimetheus may mean one of several things:
was the 45th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  聖武天皇 (45) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
)
Enceladus is a moon of Saturn.
{| class=&quot;wikitable&quot; style=&quot;float:right; text-align:center; margin:1em 1em 1em 1em;&quot;
In artificial intelligence, an expert system is a computer system that emulates the decision-making ability of a human expert.
1604
In Greek mythology the Erinyes (; sing. Erinys ; , pl.
thumb|250px|George Hamilton-Gordon, 4th Earl of Aberdeen.
East Coast Swing (ECS) is a form of social partner dance. It belongs to the group of swing dances.
Heinrich Himmler (acting)
Emil FeyErnst Rüdiger Starhemberg
Encyclopedia Brown is a series of books featuring the adventures of boy detective Leroy Brown, nicknamed &quot;Encyclopedia&quot; for his intelligence and range of knowledge.  The series of 29 children's novels was written (one co-written) by Donald J.
An empire is defined as &quot;an aggregate of nations or people ruled over by an emperor or other powerful sovereign or government, usually a territory of greater extent than a kingdom, as the former British Empire, French Empire, Russian Empire, Byzantine Empire or Roman Empire&quot;.Webster's Encyclopedic Unabridged Dictionary of the English Language, Portland House, New York, 1989, p.
The Final Solution () or the Final Solution to the Jewish Question (, ) was a Nazi plan for the extermination of the Jews during World War II. The “Final Solution of the Jewish Question” was the Nazi code name for the plan to murder all Jews within reach, and was not limited to the European continent.
Eusebius (AD 263 – 339; also called Eusebius of Caesarea and Eusebius Pamphili) was a Roman historian, exegete and Christian polemicist.
In Greek mythology, Eurystheus (;  meaning &quot;broad strength&quot; in folk etymology and pronounced ) was king of Tiryns, one of three Mycenaean strongholds in the Argolid, although other authors including Homer and Euripides cast him as ruler of Argos.
An effects unit or pedal is an electronic or digital device that alters how a musical instrument or other audio source sounds. In the 2010s, most effects use solid-state electronics and/or computer chips.
Eusebius of Alexandria is an author to whom certain extant homilies are attributed.
Eusebius (Bruno) of Angers (died September 1, 1081) was bishop of Angers, France.
Eusebius of Caesarea (; , Eusébios tés Kaisareías;  260/265 – 339/340), also known as Eusebius Pamphili, was a Greek historian of Christianity, exegete, and Christian polemicist. He became the bishop of Caesarea Maritima about 314 AD.
Empiricism is a theory that states that knowledge comes only or primarily from sensory experience.  It is one of several views of  epistemology, the study of human knowledge, along with rationalism and skepticism.
The estampie (, Occitan and , ) is a medieval dance and musical form which was a popular instrumental and vocal form in the 13th and 14th centuries. The name was also applied to poetry .
Experimental cancer treatments are medical therapies intended or claimed to treat cancer by improving on, supplementing or replacing conventional methods (surgery, chemotherapy, radiation, and immunotherapy).
Emission may refer to:
In the United States today, the organized environmental movement is represented by a wide range of organizations sometimes called non-governmental organizations or NGOs. These organizations exist on local, national, and international scales.
thumb|[[Dominique Voynet, 2008]]
thumb|200px|The oldest known icon of [[Christ Pantocrator (Sinai)|Christ Pantocrator, encaustic on panel, Saint Catherine's Monastery, Sinai Peninsula]]
Eusebius of Nicomedia (died 341) was the man who baptised Constantine the Great. He was a bishop of Berytus (modern-day Beirut) in Phoenicia, then of the See of Nicomedia, where the imperial court resided, and finally of Constantinople from 338 up to his death.
An explosive material, also called an explosive, is a reactive substance that contains a great amount of potential energy that can produce an explosion if released suddenly, usually accompanied by the production of light, heat, sound, and pressure. An explosive charge is a measured quantity of explosive material, which may be composed of a single ingredient or a combination of two or more.
In thermodynamics, the term exothermic process (exo- : &quot;outside&quot;) describes a process or reaction that releases energy from the system to its surroundings, usually in the form of heat, but also in a form of light (e.g.
Economic security or financial security is the condition of having stable income or other resources to support a standard of living now and in the foreseeable future. It includes:
Edge}}
Eth (, uppercase: Ð, lowercase: ð; also spelled edh or eð) is a letter used in Old English, Middle English, Icelandic, Faroese (in which it is called edd), and Elfdalian. It was also used in Scandinavia during the Middle Ages but was subsequently replaced with dh and later d.
million
E-Prime (short for English-Prime or English Prime, sometimes denoted É or E′) is a version of the English language that excludes all forms of the verb to be, including all conjugations, contractions and archaic forms.
right|thumb|392px|A catalog of elliptic curves. Region shown is [−3,3]2 (For a = 0 and b = 0 the function is not smooth and therefore not an elliptic curve.
Early Eocene-Holocene
This is an incomplete alphabetical list by surname of notable economists, experts in the social science of economics, past and present. For a history of economics, see the article History of economic thought.
}}
The ELIZA effect, in computer science, is the tendency to unconsciously assume computer behaviors are analogous to human behaviors, that is anthropomorphisation.
In mathematics and computer programming, exponentiating by squaring is a general method for fast computation of large positive integer powers of a number, or more generally of an element of a semigroup, like a polynomial or a square matrix. Some variants are commonly referred to as square-and-multiply algorithms or binary exponentiation.
An exon is any part of a gene that will encode a part of the final mature RNA produced by that gene after introns have been removed by RNA splicing. The term exon refers to both the DNA sequence within a gene and to the corresponding sequence in RNA transcripts.
}}
Édouard Alexandre de Pomiane, sometimes Édouard Pozerski (20 April 1875 in Paris – 26 January 1964 in Paris) was a French scientist, radio broadcaster and food writer.Hervé This Cours de gastronomie moléculaire: Tome 2, Les précisions culinaires 2010  p104 &quot;Il le doubla d'un musée de gastronomie pour honorer Édouard de Pomiane : domaine et château sont aujourd'hui nationalisés ...
Extrapyramidal can refer to:
The electronic delay storage automatic calculator (EDSAC) was an early British computer. Inspired by John von Neumann's seminal First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC, the machine was constructed by Maurice Wilkes and his team at the University of Cambridge Mathematical Laboratory in England.
Eccentricity or eccentric may refer to:
Epipaleolithic is a term used for the &quot;final Upper Palaeolithic industries occurring at the end of the final glaciation which appear to merge technologically into the Mesolithic&quot;.Bahn, Paul, The Penguin Archaeology Guide,  Penguin, London, pp.
The executive is the organ exercising authority in and holding responsibility for the governance of a state. The executive executes and enforces law.
Entente, meaning a diplomatic &quot;understanding&quot;, may refer to a number of agreements:
Editor war is the common name for the rivalry between users of the Emacs  and vi (Vim) text editors. The rivalry has become a lasting part of hacker culture and the free software community.
This article covers the organization of the Eastern Orthodox Churches rather than the doctrines, traditions, practices, or other aspects of Eastern Orthodoxy. Like the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church claims to be the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church.
EDT may refer to:
An electric guitar is a fretted stringed instrument with a neck and body that uses a pickup to convert the vibration of its strings into electrical signals. The vibration occurs when a guitarist strums, plucks or fingerpicks the strings.
Embryo drawing is the illustration of embryos in their developmental sequence. In plants and animals, an embryo develops from a zygote, the single cell that results when an egg and sperm fuse during fertilization.
Enthalpy  is a measurement of energy in a thermodynamic system.  It is the thermodynamic quantity equivalent to the total heat content of a system.
Erdoğan Atalay (born on September 22, 1966 in Hanover, West Germany) is a Turkish-German actor.
Almost all the common explosives listed here were mixtures of several common components:
The erlang (symbol EHow Many? A Dictionary of Units of Measurement) is a dimensionless unit that is used in telephony as a measure of offered load or carried load on service-providing elements such as telephone circuits or telephone switching equipment.
In American football and Canadian football, not all players on offense are entitled to receive a forward pass. Only an eligible pass receiver may legally catch a forward pass, and only an eligible receiver may advance beyond the neutral zone if a forward pass crosses the neutral zone.
}}
Note 2: The droplets may be amorphous, liquid-crystalline, or anymixture thereof.
In cryptography, encryption is the process of encoding a message or information in such a way that only authorized parties can access it. Encryption does not itself prevent interference, but denies the intelligible content to a would-be interceptor.
The Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox or EPR paradox
Encapsulation may refer to:
thumb|right|[[Aerosol of microscopic water droplets suspended in the air above a hot tea cup after that water vapor has sufficiently cooled and condensed. Water vapor is an invisible gas, but the clouds of condensed water droplets refract and disperse the sun light and so are visible.
An esbat  is a coven meeting at a time other than one of the Sabbats within Wicca and other Wiccan-influenced forms of contemporary Paganism. Janet and Stewart Farrar describe esbats as an opportunity for a &quot;love feast, healing work, psychic training and all.
thumb|300px|12-tone equal temperament chromatic scale on C, one full octave ascending, notated only with sharps.
}}}}}}
EverQuest is a 3D fantasy-themed massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) released on March 16, 1999.  It was the second commercially viable MMORPG to be released, after Ultima Online, and the first commercially successful MMORPG to employ a three-dimensional game engine.
Human evolution, also known as hominization, is the evolutionary process that led to the emergence of anatomically modern humans, beginning with the evolutionary history of primates – in particular genus Homo – and leading to the emergence of Homo sapiens sapiens as a distinct species of the hominid family, the great apes. This process involved the gradual development of traits such as  human bipedalism and language.
Ancient Egyptian religion was a complex system of polytheistic beliefs and rituals which were an integral part of ancient Egyptian society.  It centered on the Egyptians' interaction with many deities who were believed to be present in, and in control of, the forces of nature.
Educational psychology is the branch of psychology concerned with the scientific study of human learning. The study of learning processes, from both cognitive and behavioral perspectives, allows researchers to understand individual differences in intelligence, cognitive development, affect, motivation, self-regulation, and self-concept, as well as their role in learning.
Electronic funds transfer at point of sale (EFTPOS ) is an electronic payment system involving electronic funds transfers based on the use of payment cards, such as debit or credit cards, at payment terminals located at points of sale. EFTPOS technology originated in the United States in 1981 and was adopted by other countries.
The Epistle to the Laodiceans is a possible lost letter of Paul the Apostle, the original existence of which is inferred from an instruction to the church in Colossae to send their letter to the church in Laodicea, and likewise obtain a copy of the letter &quot;from Laodicea&quot; (Greek ek laodikeas ἐκ Λαοδικείας).
The German extermination camps or death camps and killing centers were designed and built by Nazi Germany during World War II (1939–45) to systematically kill millions of Jews, Slavs, Communists, and others whom the Nazis considered &quot;Untermenschen&quot;, primarily by gassing, but also in mass executions and through extreme work under starvation conditions.
Enterprise (occasionally used with the archaic spelling Enterprize) may refer to:
Excommunication is an institutional act of religious censure used to deprive, suspend, or limit membership in a religious community or to restrict certain rights within it, in particular receiving of the sacraments. The term is often historically used to refer specifically to Catholic excommunications from the Catholic Church, but it is also used more generally to refer to similar types of institutional religious exclusionary practices and shunning among other religious groups.
An electrochemical cell is a device capable of either generating electrical energy from chemical reactions or facilitating chemical reactions through the introduction of electrical energy. A common example of an electrochemical cell is a standard 1.
Ecdysis is the moulting of the cuticle in many invertebrates of the clade Ecdysozoa. Since the cuticle of these animals typically forms a largely inelastic exoskeleton, it is shed during growth and a new, larger covering is formed.
Archaeological exploration of the pre-Islamic period of Afghanistan began in Afghanistan in earnest after World War II and proceeded until the late 1970s when the nation was invaded by the Soviet Union. Archaeologists and historians suggest that humans were living in Afghanistan at least 50,000 years ago, and that farming communities of the region were among the earliest in the world.
In astrophysics, gravitational redshift or Einstein shift is the process by which electromagnetic radiation originating from a source that is in a gravitational field is reduced in frequency, or redshifted, when observed in a region at a higher gravitational potential. This is a direct result of gravitational time dilation—if one is outside of an isolated gravitational source, the rate at which time passes increases as one moves away from that source.
The term endothermic process describes a process or reaction in which the system absorbs energy from its surroundings; usually, but not always, in the form of heat. The term was coined by Marcellin Berthelot from the Greek roots endo-, derived from the word &quot;endon&quot; (ἔνδον) meaning &quot;within&quot; and the root &quot;therm&quot; (θερμ-) meaning &quot;hot.
Ephrem the Syrian ( Mār Aprêm Sûryāyâ;Various other renderings of the name from different Syriac dialects exist. The modern West Syriac pronunciation is Mor Afraim Suryoyo, while the East has Mar Aprim Suryaya.
The Enhanced Chip Set (ECS) is the second generation of the Amiga computer's chipset, offering minor improvements over the original chipset (OCS) design. ECS was introduced in 1990 with the launch of the Amiga 3000.
thumb|The embouchure of a trumpeter.
Jeff MangumHilarie SidneyJim McIntyre
Echolocation is the use of &quot;sound&quot; as a form of navigation
Evangelicalism (, -), Evangelical Christianity, or Evangelical Protestantism is a worldwide, transdenominational movement within Protestant Christianity which maintains the belief that the essence of the gospel consists of the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith in Jesus Christ's atonement. Evangelicals believe in the centrality of the conversion or the &quot;born again&quot; experience in receiving salvation, in the authority of the Bible as God's revelation to humanity, and in spreading the Christian message.
1–E5 (A5)|210px|center|bottom}}
In complex analysis, an entire function, also called an integral function, is a complex-valued function that is holomorphic at all finite points over the whole complex plane. Typical examples of entire functions are polynomials and the exponential function, and any finite sums, products and compositions of these, such as the trigonometric functions sine and cosine and their hyperbolic counterparts sinh and cosh, as well as derivatives and integrals of entire functions such as the error function.
An essay is, generally, a piece of writing that gives the author's own argument — but the definition is vague, overlapping with those of an article, a pamphlet, and a short story. Essays have traditionally been sub-classified as formal and informal.
In information theory and coding theory with applications in computer science and telecommunication, error detection and correction or error control are techniques that enable reliable delivery of digital data over unreliable communication channels. Many communication channels are subject to channel noise, and thus errors may be introduced during transmission from the source to a receiver.
In mathematics, more specifically in abstract algebra and ring theory, a Euclidean domain (also called a Euclidean ring) is a commutative ring that can be endowed with a Euclidean function (explained below) which allows a suitable generalization of the Euclidean division of the integers.  This generalized Euclidean algorithm can be put to many of the same uses as Euclid's original algorithm in the ring of integers: in any Euclidean domain, one can apply the Euclidean algorithm to compute the greatest common divisor of any two elements.
In mathematics, the Euclidean algorithm, or Euclid's algorithm, is an efficient method for computing the greatest common divisor (GCD) of two numbers, the largest number that divides both of them without leaving a remainder. It is named after the ancient Greek mathematician Euclid, who first described it in Euclid's Elements (c.
The European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts, ECMWF, is an independent intergovernmental organisation supported by most of the nations of Europe and is based at Shinfield Park, Reading, United Kingdom.
Electrothermal-chemical (ETC) technology is an attempt to increase accuracy and muzzle energy of future tank, artillery, and close-in weapon system guns by improving the predictability and rate of expansion of propellants inside the barrel.
The Boeing E-3 Sentry, commonly known as AWACS, is an American airborne early warning and control (AEW&amp;C) aircraft developed by Boeing as the prime contractor. Derived from the Boeing 707, it provides all-weather surveillance, command, control, and communications, and is used by the United States Air Force, NATO, Royal Air Force, French Air Force, and Royal Saudi Air Force.
The Northrop Grumman E-8 Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System (Joint STARS) is a United States Air Force Airborne ground surveillance, battle management and command and control aircraft. It tracks ground vehicles and some aircraft, collects imagery, and relays tactical pictures to ground and air theater commanders.
Motor Cycle, 19 January 1967, pp.84-85 What I rode in 1966, by Peter Fraser.
Econometrics is the application of statistical methods to economic data and is described as the branch of economics that aims to give empirical content to economic relations.M.
}}
The constructed international auxiliary language Esperanto was developed in the 1870s and 80s by L. L.
Esperanto is a constructed auxiliary language. A highly regular grammar makes Esperanto easier to learn than other languages of the world.
Esperanto speakers have their own culture, on top of being a &quot;gateway&quot; to the culture of the entire world (inherently more-so than most other dominant languages are). As examples, gufujoj exist, and Esperanto speakers will talk about what would normally be considered extremely touchy subjects without restraint (such as political talk or questions about racism), even if they wouldn't do this in their home country or another language they know.
thumb|Plutchik's wheel of emotions|250px
In mathematics, an elementary function is a function of one variable which is the composition of a finite number of arithmetic operations , exponentials, logarithms, constants, and solutions of algebraic equations (a generalization of nth roots).
was the 30th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō), 敏達天皇 (30); retrieved 2013-1-31. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 31st Emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  用明天皇 (31) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
was the 32nd emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō): 崇峻天皇 (32) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
was the 36th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  孝徳天皇 (33) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
– 678), a daughter of Emperor Tenmu
was the 42nd emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  文武天皇 (42); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 44th monarch of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  元正天皇 (44) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
, also known as , was the 46th (with Empress Kōken name) and the 48th monarch of Japan (with Empress Shōtoku name),Emperor Kōnin, Takano Imperial Mausoleum, Imperial Household Agency according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
was the 47th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  淳仁天皇 (47) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Komyo may refer to:
(May 25, 1334 – January 31, 1398) was the third of Emperors of Northern Court during the Period of the Northern and Southern Courts in Japan. According to pre-Meiji scholars, his reign spanned the years from 1348 through 1351.
, sometimes romanized as SuiseiNussbaum, Louis-Frédéric. (2005).
; also known as shikitsuhikotamatemi no Mikoto; was the third emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  安寧天皇 (3); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
; also known as Mimatsuhikokaeshine no Mikoto; was the fifth emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  孝昭天皇 (5); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
; also known as Yamatotarashihikokunioshihito no Mikoto; was the sixth emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  孝安天皇 (6); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
; also known as Ooyamatonekohikofutoni no Mikoto; was the seventh emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  孝霊天皇 (7); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
, also known as Ooyamatonekohikokunikuru no Mikoto, was the eighth emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  孝元天皇 (8); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
; also known as Wakayamatonekohikooobi no Mikoto; is the ninth emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  開化天皇 (9); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
, also known as Mimakiiribikoinie no Sumeramikoto (御間城入彦五十瓊殖天皇) or Hatsukunishirasu Sumeramikoto (御肇國天皇); was the tenth emperor of Japan.Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  崇神天皇 (10); retrieved 2013-8-22.
; also known as Ikumeiribikoisachi no Mikoto; was the 11th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  垂仁天皇 (11); retrieved 2013-8-22. according to the traditional order of succession.
was, according to legend, the 12th emperor of Japan.Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  景行天皇 (12); retrieved 2013-8-23.
was the 13th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō): 成務天皇 (13); retrieved 2013-8-28.
; also known as Tarashinakatsuhiko no Sumeramikoto; was the 14th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  仲哀天皇 (14); retrieved 2013-8-25. according to the traditional order of succession.Titsingh, Isaac. (1834). ; Brown, Delmer M. (1979). Gukanshō, pp. 254–255; Varley, Paul. (1980). Jinnō Shōtōki, pp. 100–101; The dates of his reign are conventionally given as 192 to 200.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard. (1959). The Imperial House of Japan, p. 34. He was the first emperor who was not the child of the previous emperor, being instead the nephew of his predecessor Emperor Seimu.Packard, Jerrold M., Sons of Heaven: A Portrait of the Japanese Monarchy, p. 45.
, also known as Homutawake or , was the 15th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  応神天皇 (15); retrieved 2013-8-26. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 17th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  履中天皇 (17); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
, also known as Emperor Hanshō, was the 18th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  反正天皇 (18); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 19th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  允恭天皇 (19); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 20th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  安康天皇 (20); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 21st emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  雄略天皇 (21); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 22nd emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  清寧天皇 (22); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
, also spelled Ghen-so-tennō, was the 23rd emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  顕宗天皇 (23); retrieved 2013-8-29. according to the traditional order of succession.
, also known as Ninken-okimi, was the 24th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  仁賢天皇 (24); retrieved 2013-8-30. according to the traditional order of succession.
was the 25th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  武烈天皇 (25) according to the traditional order of succession.Varley, Paul.
, also known as Keitai-okimi, was the 26th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  継体天皇 (26) according to the traditional order of succession.Varley, Paul.
was the 27th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  安閑天皇 (27) according to the traditional order of succession.Varley, Paul.
, also known as Senkwa, was the 28th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  宣化天皇 (28) according to the traditional order of succession.Varley, Paul.
The eight queens puzzle is the problem of placing eight chess queens on an 8×8 chessboard so that no two queens threaten each other. Thus, a solution requires that no two queens share the same row, column, or diagonal.
In Greek mythology, Ēōs (; Ionic and Homeric Greek , Attic  Éōs, &quot;dawn&quot;,  or ; Aeolic  Aúōs, Doric  Āṓs) is a Titaness and the goddessLycophron calls her by an archaic name, Tito (the Titaness). Kerenyi observes that Tito shares a linguistic origin with Eos's lover Tithonus, which belonged to an older, pre-Greek language.
Eduardo Blasco Ferrer (1956 – 12 January 2017) was a Spanish-Italian linguist and a professor at the University of Cagliari, Sardinia.  He is best known as the author of several studies about the Paleo-Sardinian and Sardinian language.
Mount Etna is an active volcano on the east coast of Sicily.
Enki (; Sumerian: ) is a god in Sumerian mythology, later known as Ea in Akkadian and Babylonian mythology. He was originally patron god of the city of Eridu, but later the influence of his cult spread throughout Mesopotamia and to the Canaanites, Hittites and Hurrians.
Elo or ELO may refer to:
(22 January 826 – 7 October 858) was the 55th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  文徳天皇 (55) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
was the 56th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  清和天皇 (56) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Daigo may refer to:
Suzaku, Su-zaku, or Su-Zaku may refer to:
Murakami may refer to:
Espionage (colloquially, spying) is the obtaining of secret or confidential information without the permission of the holder of the information. Spies help agencies uncover secret information.
Exile is a series of role-playing video games created by Jeff Vogel of Spiderweb Software. They were released as shareware titles for Macintosh and Windows systems.
Reizei can refer to:
was the 65th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  花山天皇 (65) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
literally means first street in Japanese. It can refer to:
In Japanese,  may refer to:
*Mac Manusin the track credits for The Juliet Letters
Epilepsy is a group of neurological disorders characterized by epileptic seizures. Epileptic seizures are episodes that can vary from brief and nearly undetectable to long periods of vigorous shaking.
Extrasensory perception, ESP or Espn, also called sixth sense or second sight, includes reception of information not gained through the recognized physical senses but sensed with the mind. The term was adopted by Duke University psychologist J.
thumb|330px|right|As quantity of production increases from Q to Q2, the average cost of each unit decreases from C to C1. LRAC is the long run average cost
EDIF (Electronic Design Interchange Format) is a vendor-neutral format based on S-Expressions in which to store Electronic netlists and schematics. It was one of the first attempts to establish a neutral data exchange format for the electronic design automation (EDA) industry.
The Book of Enos is the fourth book of the Book of Mormon. According to the text it was written by Enos, a Nephite prophet.
Environmental skepticism is the belief that claims by environmentalists, and the environmental scientists who support them, are false or exaggerated. The term is also applied to those who are critical of environmentalism in general.
El Niño  () is the warm phase of the El Niño Southern Oscillation (commonly called ENSO) and is associated with a band of warm ocean water that develops in  the central and east-central equatorial Pacific (between approximately the International Date Line and 120°W), including off the Pacific coast of South America. El Niño Southern Oscillation refers to the cycle of warm and cold temperatures, as measured by sea surface temperature, SST, of the tropical  central and eastern Pacific Ocean.
The flute is a family of musical instruments in the woodwind group. Unlike woodwind instruments with reeds, a flute is an aerophone or reedless wind instrument that produces its sound from the flow of air across an opening.
A flageolet is a musical instrument.
First National}}
thumb|&quot;Flagellata&quot; from [[Ernst Haeckel's Artforms of Nature, 1904]]
Function may refer to:
Flavor (American English) or Flavour (British English; see spelling differences) is the sensory impression of food or other substance, and is determined primarily by the chemical senses of taste and smell. The &quot;trigeminal senses&quot;, which detect chemical irritants in the mouth and throat, as well as temperature and texture, are also important to the overall gestalt of flavor perception.
}}
}}
In mathematics, a field  is a set on which are defined addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, which behave as they do when applied to rational and real numbers.
In mathematics, the factorial of a non-negative integer n, denoted by n!, is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n.
In law, frivolous litigation is the practice of starting or carrying on lawsuits that, due to their lack of legal merit, have little to no chance of being won. The term does not include cases that may be lost due to other matters not related to legal merit.
Fiddle is another name for the bowed string musical instrument more often called a violin. It is also a colloquial term for the instrument used by players in all genres, including classical music.
This is a list of female tennis players who meet one or more of the following criteria:
flugelhorn
Folk music includes both traditional music and the genre that evolved from it during the 20th century folk revival. The term originated in the 19th century, but is often applied to music older than that.
Frank may refer to:
A fullerene is a molecule of carbon in the form of a hollow sphere, ellipsoid, tube, and many other shapes. Spherical fullerenes, also referred to as Buckminsterfullerenes or buckyballs, resemble the balls used in association football.
Francis II may refer to:
Fallacies of definition are the various ways in which definitions can fail to explain terms. The phrase is used to suggest an analogy with an informal fallacy.
Free software or software libreSee  is computer software distributed under terms that allow the software users to run the software for any purpose as well as to study, change, and distribute the software and any adapted versions.Free Software Movement (gnu.
Free may refer to:
The free software movement (FSM) or free / open source software movement (FOSSM) or free / libre open source software (FLOSS) is a social movementRichard Stallman on the nature of the Free software movement in 2008 on emacs-devel mailing list. with the goal of obtaining and guaranteeing certain freedoms for software users, namely the freedom to run the software, to study and change the software, and to redistribute copies with or without changes.
Food is any substance consumed to provide nutritional support for an organism. It is usually of plant or animal origin, and contains essential nutrients, such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals.
A fantasy sport (also known less commonly as rotisserie or roto) is a type of online game where participants assemble imaginary or virtual teams of real players of a professional sport.  These teams compete based on the statistical performance of those players' players in actual games.
In several forms of football a forward pass is a throwing of the ball in the direction that the offensive team is trying to move, towards the defensive team's goal line. The forward pass is one of the main distinguishers between gridiron football (American football and Canadian football) in which the play is legal and widespread, and rugby football (union and league) from which the North American games evolved, in which the play is illegal.
Telecommunications in Fiji include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Modes of transport in Fiji include rail, road, water, and air. The rail network is mainly used for movement of sugar cane.
thumb|280px|Structure of the Military of Fiji]
Fiji has experienced many coups recently, in 1987, 2000, and 2006. Fiji has been suspended various times from the Commonwealth of Nations, a grouping of mostly former British colonies.
The goal line is the chalked or painted line dividing the end zone from the field of play in American football and Canadian football. It is the line that must be crossed in order to score a touchdown.
Most forms of football have a move known as a tackle.  The primary and important purposes of tackling are to dispossess an opponent of the ball, to stop the player from gaining ground towards goal or to stop them from carrying out what they intend.
A play from scrimmage is the activity of the games of Canadian football and American football during which one team tries to advance the ball, get a first down, or to score, and the other team tries to stop them or take the ball away.  Once a play is over, and before the next play starts, the football is considered dead.
A football player, footballer or soccer player is a sportsperson who plays one of the different types of football. The main types of football are association football, American football, Canadian football, Australian rules football, Gaelic football, rugby league and rugby union.
border
French () may refer to:
French people of note include:
Five-card draw (also known as a Cantrell draw) is a poker variant that is considered the simplest variant of poker, and is the basis for video poker.  As a result, it is often the first variant learned by new players.
}}
A frisbee (also called a flying disc or simply a disc) is a gliding toy or sporting item that is generally plastic and roughly  in diameter with a lip,The word &quot;disc&quot; is commonly spelled with either a &quot;c&quot; (&quot;disc&quot;) or a &quot;k&quot; (&quot;disk&quot;). used recreationally and competitively for throwing and catching, for example, in flying disc games.
The history of the Falkland Islands () goes back at least five hundred years, with active exploration and colonisation only taking place in the 18th century. Nonetheless, the islands have been a matter of controversy, as they have been claimed by the French, British, Spaniards and Argentines at various points.
The politics of the Falkland Islands takes place in a framework of a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary representative democratic dependency as set out by the constitution, whereby the Governor exercises the duties of head of state in the absence of the monarch and the Chief Executive acts as the head of government, with an elected Legislative Assembly to propose new laws and hold the executive to account.
The economy of the Falkland Islands, which first involved sealing, whaling and provisioning ships, became heavily dependent on sheep farming from the 1870s to 1980. It then diversified and now has income from tourism, commercial fishing, and servicing the fishing industry as well as agriculture.
Telecommunications in the Falkland Islands  includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
The Falkland Islands currently has three primary means of transport - road, sea and air. However, in 1946, when Sir Miles Clifford arrived as governor, there were no air services, no roads outside Stanley and an indifferent sea service.
The early details of the Faroe Islands are often unclear. It is possible that Brendan, an Irish monk, sailed past the islands during his North Atlantic voyage in the 6th century.
thumb|Faroe Islands on NASA satellite image
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Faroe Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Faroe Islands a &quot;constituent country&quot; () of the Kingdom of Denmark, function within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Prime Minister of the Faroe Islands is the head of government,Mfa.fo, Prime Minister's Office, Government and of a  multi-party system.
20.2%   16.
Telephones - main lines in use:
}}
The geography of Finland differs from that of other Nordic countries. Bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland, as well as Sweden, Norway, and Russia, Finland is the northernmost country in the European Union.
300px|thumb|right|Population densities in Finland, inhabitants per square kilometre
Politics of Finland takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic and of a multi-party system. The President of Finland is the head of state, leads the foreign policy, and is the Commander-in-chief of the Defense Forces.
Finland has excellent communications, and is considered one of the most advanced information societies in the world.Media Moves – thisisFINLAND
The transport system of Finland is well-developed. Factors affecting traffic include the sparse population and long distance between towns and cities, and the cold climate with waterways freezing and land covered in snow for winter.
The foreign relations of Finland are the responsibility of the President of Finland, who leads foreign policy in cooperation with the government. Implicitly the government is responsible for internal policy and decision making in the European Union.
}}
Transportation in France relies on one of the densest networks in the world with 146 km of road and 6.2 km of rail lines per 100 km2.
Foreign relations France includes the government's external relations with other countries and international organizations since 1954.  For the earlier history see History of French foreign relations.
 Liberté(instrumental only)
This article describes the geography of French Polynesia.
}}
Politics of French Polynesia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic French overseas collectivity, whereby the President of French Polynesia is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
}}
This article is about communications systems in French Polynesia.
Railways:
(TAAF)
The history of French Guiana spans many centuries. Before the first Europeans arrived, there was no written history in the territory.
}}
}}
The economy of French Guiana is tied closely to that of France through subsidies and imports. Besides the French space center at Kourou, fishing and forestry are the most important economic activities.
Telephones - main lines in use:
There are four types of public transport in French Guiana.
Fair use is a doctrine originating in the law of the United States that permits limited use of copyrighted material without having to first acquire permission from the copyright holder. Fair use is one of the limitations to copyright intended to balance the interests of copyright holders with the public interest in the wider distribution and use of creative works by allowing certain limited uses that might otherwise be considered infringement.
A flying car is a type of personal air vehicle that provides door-to-door transportation by both ground and air. The term &quot;flying car&quot; is often used to include roadable aircraft and hovercars.
Film editing is technical part of the post-production process of filmmaking. The term is derived from the traditional process of working with film which increasingly involves the use of digital technology.
Freestyle may refer to:
Frequency is the number of occurrences of a repeating event per unit time. It is also referred to as temporal frequency, which emphasizes the contrast to spatial frequency and angular frequency.
A film festival is an organised, extended presentation of films in one or more cinemas or screening venues, usually in a single city or region. Increasingly, film festivals show some films outdoors.
The history of film began in the 1890s, when motion picture cameras were invented and film production companies started to be established. Because of the limits of technology, films of the 1890s were under a minute long and until 1927 motion pictures were produced without sound.
The cinema of the Soviet Union, not to be confused with &quot;Cinema of Russia&quot; despite films in the Russian language being predominant in the body of work so described, includes films produced by the constituent republics of the Soviet Union reflecting elements of their pre-Soviet culture, language and history, albeit they were all regulated by the central government in Moscow. Most prolific in their republican films, after the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, were Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Ukraine, and, to a lesser degree, Lithuania, Byelorussia and Moldavia.
Feminist film theory is a  theoretical film criticism derived from feminist politics and feminist theory. Feminists have many approaches to cinema analysis, regarding the film elements analyzed and their theoretical underpinnings.
Formalist film theory is a theory of film study that is focused on the formal, or technical, elements of a film: i.e.
Film theory or cinema studies is an academic discipline that aims to explore the essence of the cinema and provides conceptual frameworks for understanding film's relationship to reality, the other arts, individual viewers, and society at large. Film theory is not to be confused with general film criticism, or film history, though there can be some crossover between the three disciplines.
Film noir (; ) is a cinematic term used primarily to describe stylish Hollywood crime dramas, particularly such that emphasize cynical attitudes and sexual motivations. Hollywood's classical film noir period is generally regarded as extending from the early 1940s to the late 1950s.
]]
Finnish may refer to:
Fantasy in a psychological sense is broadly used to cover two different senses, conscious and unconscious.  In the unconscious sense, it is sometimes spelled &quot;phantasy&quot;.
Surname conventions and laws vary around the world. This article gives an overview of surnames around the world.
The franc (₣) is the name of several currency units. The French franc was the currency of France until the euro was adopted in 1999 (by law, 2002 de facto).
Francium is a chemical element with symbol Fr and atomic number 87. It used to be known as eka-caesium and actinium K.
Ferrum|Fermion}}
Frédéric François Chopin (; ; 1 March 181017 October 1849), born Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin,, with the alternative, phonetic spelling Szopen.|group=n}} was a Polish composer and virtuoso pianist of the Romantic era who wrote primarily for the solo piano.
thumb|300px|A fax machine from the late 1990s
thumb|300px|right|Film crew and equipment on a location shoot
Fear is a feeling induced by perceived danger or threat that occurs in certain types of organisms, which causes a change in metabolic and organ functions and ultimately a change in behavior, such as fleeing, hiding, or freezing from perceived traumatic events. Fear in human beings may occur in response to a specific stimulus occurring in the present, or in anticipation or expectation of a future threat perceived as a risk to body or life.
A football team is a group of players selected to play together in the various team sports known as football. Such teams could be selected to play in a match against an opposing team, to represent a football club, group, state or nation, an all-star team or even selected as a hypothetical team (such as a [team|Dream Team] or Team of the Century) and never play an actual match.
F-sharp}}
Food preservation is to prevent the growth of microorganisms (such as yeasts), or other micro-organisms (although some methods work by introducing benign bacteria or fungi to the food), as well as slowing the oxidation of fats that cause rancidity. Food preservation may also include processes that inhibit visual deterioration, such as the enzymatic browning reaction in apples after they are cut during food preparation.
In telecommunications and signal processing, frequency modulation (FM) is the encoding of information in a carrier wave by varying the instantaneous frequency of the wave.  This contrasts with amplitude modulation, in which the amplitude of the carrier wave varies, while the frequency remains constant.
Faith and rationality are two ideologies that exist in varying degrees of conflict or compatibility. Rationality is based on reason or facts.
Some notable institutions celebrating film, including both national film institutes and independent and non-profit organizations. For the purposes of this list, institutions that do not have their own article on Wikipedia are not considered notable.
Forth or FORTH may refer to:
In neuroscience, an F wave is the second of two voltage changes observed after electrical stimulation is applied to the skin surface above the distal region of a nerve. F waves are often used to measure nerve conduction velocity, and are particularly useful for evaluating conduction problems in the proximal region of nerves (i.
In botany, a fruit is the seed-bearing structure in flowering plants (also known as angiosperms) formed from the ovary after flowering.
French materialism is the name given to a handful of French 18th-century philosophers during the Age of Enlightenment, many of them clustered around the salon of Baron d'Holbach.  Although there are important differences between them, all of them were materialists who believed that the world was made up of a single substance, matter, the motions and properties of which could be used to explain all phenomena.
February is the second month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars. It is the shortest month of the year as it is the only month to have a length of less than 30 days.
==Events==
FLOTUS (album)}}
}}
MercedesRenaultHonda
In chronostratigraphy, a stage is a succession of rock strata laid down in a single age on the geologic timescale, which usually represents millions of years of deposition.  A given stage of rock and the corresponding age of time will by convention have the same name, and the same boundaries.
attributed to young scientists
Kafka himself always used the spelling Process; Max Brod, and later other publishers, changed it. See Faksimile Edition and the discussion at :de:Diskussion:Franz Kafka/Archiv#Prozeß vs.
FSF may refer to:
thumb|150px|John Venn
List of poets who have written in the French language:
million
Sigmund Freud (1856–1939) was the inventor of psychoanalysis, psychosexual stages, and the personality theory of Ego, Superego, and Id.
Plurality voting is an electoral system in which each voter is allowed to vote for only one candidate, and the candidate who polls the most among their counterparts (a plurality) is elected. In a system based on single-member districts, it may be called first-past-the-post (FPTP), single-choice voting, simple plurality or relative/simple majority.
Fetish may refer to:
==Events==
A free-trade area is the region encompassing a trade bloc whose member countries have signed a free-trade agreement (FTA). Such agreements involve cooperation between at least two countries to reduce trade barriers import quotas and tariffs and to increase trade of goods and services with each other.
Field hockey is a team sport of the hockey family. The earliest origins of the game date back to the Middle Ages in England, Scotland, France and the Netherlands.
Finagle's Law of Dynamic Negatives, also known as Melody's law or Finagle's corollary to Murphy's law, is usually rendered:
In physics, the fundamental interactions, also known as fundamental forces, are the interactions that do not appear to be reducible to more basic interactions. There are four fundamental interactions known to exist:  the gravitational and electromagnetic interactions, which produce significant long-range forces whose effects can be seen directly in everyday life, and the strong, and weak interactions, which produce forces at minuscule, subatomic distances and govern nuclear interactions.
A floppy disk, also called a floppy, diskette, or just disk, is a type of disk storage composed of a disk of thin and flexible magnetic storage medium, sealed in a rectangular plastic enclosure lined with fabric that removes dust particles. Floppy disks are read and written by a floppy disk drive (FDD).
Fencing is a sport in which two competitors fight using 'rapier-style' swords, called the foil, the épée, and the sabre; winning points are made through the contact with an opponent. Fencing was one of the first sports to be played in the Olympics.
The Free Software Definition written by Richard Stallman and published by Free Software Foundation (FSF), defines free software as being software that ensures that the end users have freedom in using, studying, sharing and modifying that software. The term &quot;free&quot; is used in the sense of &quot;free speech,&quot; not of &quot;free of charge.
thumb|right|300px|The six-part fugue in the Ricercar a 6 from [[The Musical Offering, in the hand of Johann Sebastian Bach]]
In physics, a force is any interaction that, when unopposed, will change the motion of an object. A force can cause an object with mass to change its velocity (which includes to begin moving from a state of rest), i.
Family law (also called matrimonial law) is an area of the law that deals with family matters and domestic relations, including:
Foonly was a short-lived American computer company formed by Dave Poole, one of the principal Super Foonly designers as well as one of hackerdom's more colourful personalities. The company produced a series of DEC PDP-10 compatible computers, first the high-performance F-1, and later a series of smaller and less expensive designs.
thumb|150px|[[Benzyl acetate has an ester functional group (in red), an acetyl moiety (circled with dark green) and a benzyloxy moiety (circled with light orange). Other divisions can be made.
In mathematics a fractal is an abstract object used to describe and simulate naturally occurring objects. Artificially created fractals commonly exhibit similar patterns at increasingly small scales.
In physics, a fluid is a substance that continually deforms (flows) under an applied shear stress.  Fluids are a subset of the phases of matter and include liquids, gases, plasmas, and to some extent, plastic solids.
Frequently asked questions (FAQ) or Questions and Answers (Q&amp;A), are listed questions and answers, all supposed to be commonly asked in some context, and pertaining to a particular topic. The format is commonly used on email mailing lists and other online forums, where certain common questions tend to recur.
In mathematics, the Fibonacci numbers are the numbers in the following integer sequence, called the Fibonacci sequence, and characterized by the fact that every number after the first two is the sum of the two preceding ones:
A fighter aircraft is a military aircraft designed primarily for air-to-air combat against other aircraft, as opposed to bombers and attack aircraft, whose main mission is to attack ground targets. The hallmarks of a fighter are its speed, maneuverability, and small size relative to other combat aircraft.
==Events==
A finite-state machine (FSM) or finite-state automaton (FSA, plural: automata), finite automaton, or simply a state machine, is a mathematical model of computation.  It is an abstract machine that can be in exactly one of a finite number of states at any given time.
In computer science, functional programming is a programming paradigm—a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs—that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data. It is a declarative programming paradigm, which means programming is done with expressions or declarations instead of statements.
February 29, also known as leap day or leap year day, is a date added to most years that are divisible by 4, such as 2008, 2012, 2016, 2020, and 2024. A leap day is added in various solar calendars (calendars based on the Earth's revolution around the Sun), including the Gregorian calendar standard in most of the world.
FSU may refer to:
In mathematics, computer science, and linguistics, a formal language is a set of strings of symbols together with a set of rules that are specific to it.
Free to Choose: A Personal Statement (1980) is a book and a ten-part television series broadcast on public television by economists Milton and Rose D. Friedman that advocates free market principles. It was primarily a response to an earlier landmark book and television series: The Age of Uncertainty, by the noted economist John Kenneth Galbraith. Milton Friedman won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics in 1976.
Ayrton Senna (6)
Fission, a splitting of something into two or more parts, may refer to:
Fusion or synthesis, the process of combining two or more distinct entities into a new whole, may refer to:
thumb|Example of a four-colored map
Javier, Kingdom of Navarre (now Spain)
Fossils (from Classical Latin fossilis; literally, &quot;obtained by digging&quot;) are the preserved remains or traces of animals, plants, and other organisms from the remote past. The totality of fossils, both discovered and undiscovered, and their placement in fossiliferous (fossil-containing) rock formations and sedimentary layers (strata) is known as the fossil record.
}}
thumb|250px|The garden of oblivion, illustration by [[Ephraim Moses Lilien.]]
The forgetting curve hypothesizes the decline of memory retention in time. This curve shows how information is lost over time when there is no attempt to retain it.
A field-programmable gate array (FPGA) is an integrated circuit designed to be configured by a customer or a designer after manufacturing hence &quot;field-programmable&quot;. The FPGA configuration is generally specified using a hardware description language (HDL), similar to that used for an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
Free-running sleep is a sleep pattern that is not adjusted (entrained) to the 24-hour cycle in nature nor to any artificial cycle.
thumb|Odin and Fenris (1909) by Dorothy Hardy
Final Fantasy}} is a science fiction and fantasy media franchise created by Hironobu Sakaguchi, and developed and owned by Square Enix (formerly Square). The franchise centers on a series of fantasy and science fantasy role-playing video games (RPGs).
thumb|300px|right|Comparison of the [[Cis–trans isomerism|trans isomer Elaidic acid (top) and the  cis isomer oleic acid (bottom).]]
The Four Freedoms were goals articulated by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt on Monday, January 6, 1941.
First-order logic—also known as first-order predicate calculus and predicate logic—is a collection of formal systems used in mathematics, philosophy, linguistics, and computer science. First-order logic uses quantified variables over non-logical objects and allows the use of sentences that contain variables, so that rather than propositions such as Socrates is a man one can have expressions in the form &quot;there exists X such that X is Socrates and X is a man&quot; and there exists is a quantifier while X is a variable.
In mathematics, a functor is a type of mapping between categories arising in category theory. Functors can be thought of as homomorphisms between categories.
In Norse mythology, Fimbulvetr (or fimbulvinter), commonly rendered in English as Fimbulwinter, is the immediate prelude to the events of Ragnarök. It means &quot;great winter&quot;.
==Events==
}}
François d'Aguilon (also d'Aguillon or in Latin Franciscus Aguilonius) (4 January 1567 – 20 March 1617) was a Belgian Jesuit mathematician, physicist and architect.
}}
thumb|A glass of [[port wine|port, a fortified wine]]
French cuisine consists of the cooking traditions and practices from France.
In the mathematical  field of algebraic topology, the fundamental group is a mathematical group associated to any given pointed topological space that provides a way to determine when two paths, starting and ending at a fixed base point, can be continuously deformed into each other. It records information about the basic shape, or holes, of the topological space.
==Events==
For superstitious reasons, when the Romans began to intercalate to bring their calendar into line with the solar year, they chose not to place their extra month of Mercedonius after February but within it.Macrobius.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
FBI is the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States.
Francisco Álvares (c. 1465 in Coimbra – 1536~1541, Rome) was a Portuguese missionary and explorer.
Francesco Andreini (c. 1548 – 1624) was an Italian actor mainly of commedia dell'arte plays.
The Fifth Monarchists or Fifth Monarchy Men were an extreme Puritan sect  active from 1649 to 1660 during the Interregnum, following the English Civil Wars of the 17th century.Fifth Monarchy Men: Study in Seventeenth Century English Millenarianism by Bernard Capp  They took their name from a prophecy in the Book of Daniel that four ancient monarchies (Babylonian, Persian, Macedonian, and Roman) would precede the kingdom of Christ.
==Events==
==Events==
250px|thumb|[[Spectrogram of American English vowels  showing the formants F1 and F2]]
==Events==
This is a list of programmers notable for their contributions to software, either as original author or architect, or for later additions. All entries should already have associated articles.
Film stock is an analog medium that is used for recording motion pictures or animation. It is a strip or sheet of transparent plastic film base coated on one side with a gelatin emulsion containing microscopically small light-sensitive silver halide crystals.
Form 1040 (officially, the &quot;U.S.
 1874
In physics and engineering, fluid dynamics  is a subdiscipline of fluid mechanics that describes the flow of fluids (liquids and gases).  It has several subdisciplines, including aerodynamics (the study of air and other gases in motion) and hydrodynamics (the study of liquids in motion).
A fin is a thin component or appendage attached to a larger body or structure. Fins typically function as foils that produce lift or thrust, or provide the ability to steer or stabilize motion while traveling in water, air, or other fluid media.
thumb|right|&quot;Freyr&quot; (1901) by [[Johannes Gehrts.]]
In Norse mythology, Freyja (; Old Norse for &quot;(the) Lady&quot;) is a goddess associated with love, sex, beauty, fertility, gold, seiðr, war, and death. Freyja is the owner of the necklace Brísingamen, rides a chariot pulled by two cats, keeps the boar Hildisvíni by her side, possesses a cloak of falcon feathers, and, by her husband Óðr, is the mother of two daughters, Hnoss and Gersemi.
First-class cricket is an official classification of the highest standard international or domestic matches in the sport of cricket. A first-class match is of three or more days' scheduled duration between two sides of eleven players each and is officially adjudged to be worthy of the status by virtue of the standard of the competing teams.
}}
}}
The following is a list of presidents of the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), the world association football governing body.
Fascism  is a form of radical authoritarian nationalism, characterized by dictatorial power, forcible suppression of opposition, and control of industry and commerce, that came to prominence in early 20th-century Europe. The first fascist movements emerged in Italy during World War I, before it spread to other European countries.
A forge is a type of hearth used for heating metals, or the workplace (smithy) where such a hearth is located. The forge is used by the smith to heat a piece of metal to a temperature where it becomes easier to shape by forging, or to the point where work hardening no longer occurs.
The Five Pillars of Islam ( ; also   &quot;pillars of the religion&quot;) are five basic acts in Islam, considered mandatory by believers and are the foundation of Muslim life. They are summarized in the famous hadith of Gabriel.
Friction is the force resisting the relative motion of solid surfaces, fluid layers, and material elements sliding against each other. There are several types of friction:
==Events==
Faith is confidence or trust in a particular system of religious belief, in which faith may equate to confidence based on some perceived degree of warrant.
Flavian may refer to:
A forest is a large area dominated by trees.  Hundreds of more precise definitions of forest are used throughout the world, incorporating factors such as tree density, tree height, land use, legal standing and ecological function.
}}
A kite is traditionally a tethered heavier-than-air craft with wing surfaces that react against the air to create lift and drag. A kite consists of wings, tethers, pulleys, and anchors.
A fanzine (blend of fan and magazine or -zine) is a non-professional and non-official publication produced by enthusiasts of a particular cultural phenomenon (such as a literary or musical genre) for the pleasure of others who share their interest. The term was coined in an October 1940 science fiction fanzine by Russ Chauvenet and first popularized within science fiction fandom, and from there it was adopted by other communities.
Forgotten Futures is a role-playing game created by Marcus Rowland to allow people to play in settings inspired by Victorian and Edwardian science fiction and fantasy (i.e.
thumb|right|Fabritio Caroso, a woodcut from Il Ballarino
FAO may refer to:
Filioque () is a Latin term added to the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed (commonly known as the Nicene Creed). It has been the subject of great controversy between Eastern and Western Christianity.
FIPS or Fips may refer to:
Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) are publicly announced standards developed by the United States federal government for use in computer systems by non-military government agencies and government contractors.
Flank may refer to:
==Events==
, genitive
border
A Flamsteed designation is a combination of a number and constellation name that uniquely identifies most naked eye stars in the modern constellations visible from southern England.
==Events==
The Northrop F-5A and F-5B Freedom Fighter and the F-5E and F-5F Tiger II are part of a supersonic light fighter family, initially designed in the late 1950s by Northrop Corporation. Being smaller and simpler than contemporaries such as the McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II, the F-5 cost less to both procure and operate, making it a popular export aircraft.
FDR are the initials of Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882–1945), the 32nd President of the United States.
Fresco (plural frescos or frescoes) is a technique of mural painting executed upon freshly-laid, or wet lime plaster. Water is used as the vehicle for the pigment to merge with the plaster, and with the setting of the plaster, the painting becomes an integral part of the wall.
Fire is the rapid oxidation of a material in the exothermic chemical process of combustion, releasing heat, light, and various reaction products.  Slower oxidative processes like rusting or digestion are not included by this definition.
The Fresnel equations (or Fresnel conditions), deduced by Augustin-Jean Fresnel (), describe the behaviour of light when moving between media of differing refractive indices. The reflection of light that the equations predict is known as Fresnel reflection.
Figure skating is a sport in which individuals, duos, or groups perform on figure skates on ice. It was the first winter sport included in the Olympics, in 1908.
Fudge is a generic role-playing game system for use in freeform role-playing games.  The name &quot;FUDGE&quot; was once an acronym for Freeform Universal Donated (later, Do-it-yourself) Gaming Engine and, though the acronym has since been dropped, that phrase remains a good summation of the game's design goals.
==Events==
}}
==Events==
The Pinchcliffe Grand Prix () is a Norwegian stop motion-animated feature film directed by Ivo Caprino. It was released in 1975 and is based on characters from a series of books by Norwegian cartoonist and author Kjell Aukrust.
==Events==
Freedom}}
The terms foobar (), or foo and others are used as placeholder names (also referred to as metasyntactic variables) in computer programming or computer-related documentation. They have been used to name entities such as variables, functions, and commands whose exact identity is unimportant and serve only to demonstrate a concept.
thumb|right|200px|One of the possible modes of vibration of an idealized circular [[drum head. These modes are eigenfunctions of a linear operator on a function space, a common construction in functional analysis.
}}
==Events==
Feminism is a range of political movements, ideologies, and social movements that share a common goal: to define, establish, and achieve political, economic, personal, and social rights for women. This includes seeking to establish educational and professional opportunities for women that are equal to such opportunities for men.
border
()
Fingerspelling (or dactylology) is the representation of the letters of a writing system, and sometimes numeral systems, using only the hands. These manual alphabets (also known as finger alphabets or hand alphabets), have often been used in deaf education, and have subsequently been adopted as a distinct part of a number of sign languages; there are about forty manual alphabets around the world.
Freemasonry or Masonry consists of fraternal organisations that trace their origins to the local fraternities of stonemasons, which from the end of the fourteenth century regulated the qualifications of stonemasons and their interaction with authorities and clients. The degrees of freemasonry retain the three grades of medieval craft guilds, those of Apprentice, Journeyman or fellow (now called Fellowcraft), and Master Mason.
(as Fulham St. Andrews Football &amp; Cricket Club)
In economics, factors of production, resources, or inputs are what is used in the production process to produce output—that is, finished goods and services.  The utilized amounts of the various inputs determine the quantity of output according  to the  relationship is called the production function.
&quot;City of Churches&quot;; &quot;City That Saved Itself&quot;; &quot;Magnet Wire Capital of the World&quot;
Fart is a word in the English language most commonly used in reference to flatulence. The word fart is often considered unsuitable in formal situations as it may be considered vulgar or offensive.
The Cathedral
}}
Filter, filtering or filters may refer to:
The Free Methodist Church is a Methodist Christian denomination within the holiness movement. It is evangelical in nature and has its roots in the Wesleyan-Arminian tradition.
&quot;Fixed point&quot; has many meanings in science, most of them mathematical.
Sir John Falstaff is a fictional character who is mentioned in five plays by William Shakespeare and appears on stage in three of them. His significance as a fully developed character in Shakespeare is primarily formed in the plays Henry IV, Part 1 and Part 2, where he is a companion to Prince Hal, the future King Henry V.
Floorball is a type of floor hockey with five players and a goalkeeper in each team. Men and women play indoors with  sticks and a  plastic ball with holes.
(19 teams)
}}
Feminist science fiction is a subgenre of science fiction (abbreviated &quot;SF&quot;) focused on theories that include but are not limited to gender inequality, sexuality, race, economics, and reproduction. Feminist SF is political because of its tendency to critique the dominant culture.
Fellatio (also known as fellation, and colloquially as blowjob, BJ, giving head, or sucking off) is an oral sex act involving the use of the mouth or throat, which is performed by a person on the penis of another person or oneself (autofellatio). Oral stimulation of the scrotum may also be termed fellatio or tea bagging.
A fatwā (; plural fatāwā ) in the Islamic faith is a nonbinding but authoritative legal opinion or learned interpretation that the Sheikhul Islam, a qualified jurist or mufti, can give on issues pertaining to the Islamic law. The person who issues a fatwā is called, in that respect, a mufti, i.
The Power of Love or Power of Love may refer to:
Liverpool is Frankie Goes to Hollywood's second and last studio album, released in October 1986 (see 1986 in music). It would be the band's final album of all-new material, and lead singer Holly Johnson would leave the band following the corresponding world tour, followed by a flurry of lawsuits from ZTT.
thumb|300px|Elementary particles included in the [[Standard Model]]
Frontline is an Australian comedy television series which satirised Australian television current affairs programmes and reporting. It ran for three series of 13 half-hour episodes and was broadcast on ABC TV in 1994, 1995, and 1997.
Statements, hypotheses, or theories have falsifiability or refutability if there is the inherent possibility that they can be proven false. They are falsifiable if it is possible to conceive of an observation or an argument which could negate them.
Freikorps (, &quot;Free Corps&quot;) were German volunteer units that existed from the 18th to the early 20th centuries, the members of which effectively fought as mercenaries, regardless of their own nationality. In German-speaking countries, the first so-called Freikorps (&quot;free regiments&quot;, ) were formed in the 18th century from native volunteers, enemy renegades and deserters, and criminals.
}}
Foreign relations of Afghanistan are handled by the nation's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is headed by Salahuddin Rabbani. He answers to, and receives guidance from, the President of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani.
The term felony, in some common law countries, means a serious crime. The word originates from English common law (from the French medieval word &quot;félonie&quot;), where felonies were originally crimes that involved confiscation of a convicted person's land and goods.
Ferdinand of Habsburg may refer to:
First aid is the assistance given to any person suffering a sudden illness or injury, with care provided to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, and/or promote recovery.  It includes initial intervention in a serious condition prior to professional medical help being available, such as performing CPR while awaiting an ambulance, as well as the complete treatment of minor conditions, such as applying a plaster to a cut.
thumb|230px|[[Castle – a traditional symbol of a feudal society (Orava Castle in Slovakia).]]
Foxes are small-to-medium-sized, omnivorous mammals belonging to several genera of the family Canidae. Foxes are slightly smaller than a medium-size domestic dog, with a flattened skull, upright triangular ears, a pointed, slightly upturned snout, and a long bushy tail (or brush).
Foundationalism concerns philosophical theories of knowledge resting upon justified belief, or some secure foundation of certainty such as a conclusion inferred from a basis of sound premises.Simon Blackburn, The Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy, 2nd (New York: Oxford University Press, 2005), p 139.
Folklore is the expressive body of culture shared by a particular group of people; it encompasses the traditions common to that culture, subculture or group. These include oral traditions such as tales, proverbs and jokes.
thumb|Example of a fusion dish: combination of [[smoked salmon wrapped in rice paper, with avocado, cucumber and crab sticks]]
In artificial intelligence, the frame problem describes an issue with using first-order logic (FOL) to express facts about a robot in the world. Representing the state of a robot with traditional FOL requires the use of many axioms that simply imply that things in the environment do not change arbitrarily.
==Events==
==Events==
Flambards is a novel for children or young adults by K. M.
Michael Curtis Adam Chase Greg Malins Wil Calhoun Scott Silveri Shana Goldberg-Meehan Andrew Reich Ted Cohen
Frankish  may refer to:
The FBI Most Wanted Terrorists was a list created and first released on October 10, 2001, with the authority of United States President Bush, following the September 11 attacks on the United States. Initially, the list contained 22 of the top terrorists chosen by the FBI, all of whom had earlier been indicted for acts of terrorism between 1985 and 1998.
==Events==
==Events==
563,655 ()
In mathematical logic, a first-order predicate is a predicate that takes only individual(s) constants or variables as argument(s).. Compare second-order predicate and higher-order predicate.
A snap (colloquially called a &quot;hike&quot;, &quot;snapback&quot;, or &quot;pass from center&quot;) is the backwards passing of the ball in American and Canadian football at the start of play from scrimmage.
FireWire is Apple's trademark for the IEEE 1394 interface.
FIFO is an acronym for first in, first out, a method for organizing and manipulating a data buffer, where the oldest (first) entry, or 'head' of the queue, is processed first. It is analogous to processing a queue with first-come, first-served (FCFS) behaviour: where the people leave the queue in the order in which they arrive.
Firewall}}
Fenrir, Fenrisulfr or Fenris is a Norse mythological wolf. It may also refer to:
In Germanic mythology, Frigg (Old Norse), Frija (Old High German), Frea (Langobardic), and Frige (Old English) is a goddess. In nearly all sources, she is described as the wife of the god Odin.
Freehold may refer to:
This day marks the approximate midpoint of winter in the Northern Hemisphere and of summer in the Southern Hemisphere (starting the season at the December solstice).
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Floor Leaders are leaders of their political parties in a body of a legislature.
Fabio Taglioni (September 10, 1920 – July 18, 2001) was an Italian engineer.
A fourth-generation programming language (4GL) is a computer programming language envisioned as a refinement of the style of languages classified as third-generation programming language (3GL).  Each of the programming language generations aims to provide a higher level of abstraction of the internal computer hardware details, making the language more programmer-friendly, powerful and versatile.
Frank Coppola}}
Fabii Maximi}}
In computing, floating-point arithmetic is arithmetic using formulaic representation of real numbers as an approximation so as to support a trade-off between range and precision. For this reason, floating-point computation is often found in systems which include very small and very large real numbers, that of which require fast processing times.
The First Epistle to the Corinthians (), usually referred to simply as First Corinthians and often written 1 Corinthians, is one of the Pauline epistles of the New Testament of the Christian Bible. The epistle says that Paul the Apostle and &quot;Sosthenes our brother&quot; wrote it to &quot;the church of God which is at Corinth&quot;  although the scholarly consensus holds that Sosthenes was the amanuensis who wrote down the text of the letter at Paul's direction.
List of Scots is an incomplete list of notable people from Scotland.
This is a list of notable South Africans who are the subjects of Wikipedia articles.
A file manager or file browser is a computer program that provides a user interface to manage files and folders. The most common operations performed on files or groups of files include creating, opening (e.
A file viewer is application software that presents the data stored in a computer file in a human-friendly form. The file contents are generally displayed on the screen, or they may be printed.
The First Epistle of Peter, usually referred to simply as First Peter and often written 1 Peter, is a book of the New Testament. The author presents himself as Peter the Apostle, and the epistle was traditionally held to have been written during his time as bishop of Rome or Bishop of Antioch, though neither title is used in the epistle.
The First Epistle of John, often referred to as First John and written 1 John, is the first of the Johannine epistles of the New Testament, and the fourth of the catholic epistles. It is attributed to John the Evangelist, traditionally thought to be the author of the Gospel of John and the other two Johannine epistles.
The  Vatican Council () was convoked by Pope Pius IX on 29 June 1868, after a period of planning and preparation that began on 6 December 1864. This, the twentieth ecumenical council of the Catholic Church,Encyclopædia Britannica: First Vatican Council held three centuries after the Council of Trent, opened on 8 December 1869 and adjourned on 20 October 1870.
The Council of 1123 is reckoned in the series of Ecumenical councils by the Catholic Church. It was convoked by Pope Calixtus II in December, 1122, immediately after the Concordat of Worms.
chôturarjô sôtyô
The French Republican Calendar (), also commonly called the French Revolutionary Calendar (calendrier révolutionnaire français), was a calendar created and implemented during the French Revolution, and used by the French government for about 12 years from late 1793 to 1805, and for 18 days by the Paris Commune in 1871. The revolutionary system was designed in part to remove all religious and royalist influences from the calendar, and was part of a larger attempt at decimalisation in France (which also included decimal time of day, decimalisation of currency, and metrication).
The Fourth Council of the Lateran was convoked by Pope Innocent III with the papal bull Vineam domini Sabaoth of 19 April 1213, and the Council gathered at Rome's Lateran Palace beginning 11 November 1215. Due to the great length of time between the Council's convocation and meeting, many bishops had the opportunity to attend.
FileMan is a set of utilities written by George Timson in the late 1970s and early 1980s, using MUMPS, which provide a meta-data function for MUMPS applications.  The FileMan utilities allow the definition of data structures, menus and security, reports, and forms, allowing someone to set up applications without tremendous experience in the MUMPS programming language.
}}
Fermentation is a metabolic process whereby electrons released from nutrients are ultimately transferred to molecules obtained from the breakdown of those same nutrients.
Forcemeat is a mixture of ground, lean meat mixed with fat by either grinding, sieving, or puréeing the ingredients.  The result may either be smooth or coarse, depending on the desired consistency of the final product.
thumb|250px|Forseti, 1680right|thumb|300px|Forseti Seated in Judgment (1881) by [[Carl Emil Doepler]]
on the official NYC website.
A flag is a piece of fabric (most often rectangular or quadrilateral) with a distinctive design that is used as a symbol, as a signaling device, or as decoration. The term flag is also used to refer to the graphic design employed, and flags have since evolved into a general tool for rudimentary signalling and identification, especially in environments where communication is similarly challenging (such as the maritime environment where semaphore is used).
)
A false document is often promoted in conjunction with a criminal enterprise, such as fraud or a confidence game.
A full moon is the lunar phase that occurs when the Moon is completely illuminated as seen from Earth. This occurs when Earth is located directly between the Sun and the Moon (more exactly, when the ecliptic longitudes of the Sun and Moon differ by 180 degrees).
A film format is a technical definition of a set of standard characteristics regarding image capture on photographic film, for either stills or filmmaking. It can also apply to projected film, either slides or movies.
Faster-than-light (also superluminal or FTL) communication and travel refer to the propagation of information or matter faster than the speed of light.
FTL may stand for:
__
Falsification may refer to:
Fatherland is the nation of one's &quot;fathers&quot;, &quot;forefathers&quot; or &quot;ancestors&quot;. It can be viewed as a nationalist concept, insofar as it is evocative of emotions related to family ties and links them to national identity and patriotism, but in the English language it can also simply mean the country of one's birth or origin.
The flag of the United States of America, often referred to as the American flag, is the national flag of the United States. It  consists of thirteen equal horizontal stripes of red (top and bottom) alternating with white, with a blue rectangle in the canton (referred to specifically as the &quot;union&quot;) bearing fifty small, white, five-pointed stars arranged in nine offset horizontal rows, where rows of six stars (top and bottom) alternate with rows of five stars.
}
Frederick V or Friedrich V may refer to:
.
1501) in Orvieto Cathedral, ItalyConsidered to be a posthumous portrait of Fra Angelico.
Fra Bartolomeo or Bartolommeo OP (March 28, 1472 – October 31, 1517), also known as Bartolommeo di Pagholo, Bartolommeo di S. Marco, and his original name Baccio della Porta, was an Italian Renaissance painter of religious subjects.
A frigate  is any of several types of warship, the term having been used for ships of various sizes and roles over the last few centuries.
José Miaja
&quot;Flash Crowd&quot; is a 1973 English language novella by science fiction author Larry Niven, one of a series about the social consequence of inventing an instant, practically free transfer booth.
There are two Epistles to the Thessalonians in the Bible:
Free verse is an open form of poetry. It does not use consistent meter patterns, rhyme, or any other musical pattern.
}}
File or filing may refer to:
The fundamental frequency, often referred to simply as the fundamental, is defined as the lowest frequency of a periodic waveform. In music, the fundamental is the musical pitch of a note that is perceived as the lowest partial present.
Fable is a literary genre:  a succinct fictional story, in prose or verse, that features animals, legendary creatures, plants, inanimate objects, or forces of nature that are anthropomorphized (given human qualities, such as the ability to speak human language) and that illustrates or leads to a particular moral lesson (a &quot;moral&quot;), which may at the end be added explicitly as a pithy maxim.
The foot (plural feet) is an anatomical structure found in many vertebrates. It is the terminal portion of a limb which bears weight and allows locomotion.
A fallout shelter is an enclosed space specially designed to protect occupants from radioactive debris or fallout resulting from a nuclear explosion. Many such shelters were constructed as civil defense measures during the Cold War.
The Federated States of Micronesia are located on the Caroline Islands in the western Pacific Ocean. The history of the modern Federated States of Micronesia is one of settlement by Micronesians; colonization by Spain, Germany, and Japan; United Nations trusteeship under United States-administered Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands; and gradual independence beginning with the ratification of a sovereign constitution in 1979.
The politics of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) takes place in a framework of a federal representative democratic republic. The President of the Federated States of Micronesia is both head of state and head of government.
thumb|right|Map of the [[Federated States of Micronesia in the Caroline Islands Archipelago.]]
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Federated States of Micronesia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
}}
This article is about communications systems in the Federated States of Micronesia.
Railways:
The government of the Federated States of Micronesia (FSM) conducts its own foreign relations.
Fandom is a subculture composed of fans characterized by a feeling of empathy and camaraderie with others who share a common interest. Fans typically are interested in even minor details of the object(s) of their fandom and spend a significant portion of their time and energy involved with their interest, often as a part of a social network with particular practices (a fandom); this is what differentiates &quot;fannish&quot; (fandom-affiliated) fans from those with only a casual interest.
A fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm computes the discrete Fourier transform (DFT) of a sequence, or its inverse (IFFT). Fourier analysis converts a signal from its original domain (often time or space) to a representation in the frequency domain and vice versa.
Around 45% of English vocabulary is of French origin, most coming from the Anglo-Norman spoken by the upper classes in England for several hundred years after the Norman Conquest, before the language settled into what became Modern English. Thoroughly English words of French origin, such as art, competition, force, machine, money, police, publicity, role, routine and table, are pronounced according to English rules of phonology, rather than French, and are commonly used by English speakers without any consciousness of their French origin.
The South African financial rand was the most visible part of a system of capital controls. Although the financial rand was abolished in March 1994, the capital controls remain in place.
This is a list of FIPS 10-4 country codes for Countries, Dependencies, Areas of Special Sovereignty, and Their Principal Administrative Divisions.
Fly-by-wire (FBW) is a system that replaces the conventional manual flight controls of an aircraft with an electronic interface. The movements of flight controls are converted to electronic signals transmitted by wires (hence the fly-by-wire term), and flight control computers determine how to move the actuators at each control surface to provide the ordered response.
14 June 1982()
The Fahrenheit scale is a temperature scale based on one proposed in 1724 by Amsterdam-based physicist Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit (1686–1736), after whom the scale is named. It uses the degree Fahrenheit (symbol: °F) as the unit.
A quotient group or factor group is a mathematical group obtained by aggregating similar elements of a larger group using an equivalence relation that preserves the group structure.  For example, the cyclic group of addition modulo n can be obtained from the integers by identifying elements that differ by a multiple of n and defining a group structure that operates on each such class (known as a congruence class) as a single entity.
In abstract algebra, the fundamental theorem on homomorphisms, also known as the fundamental homomorphism theorem, relates the structure of two objects between which a homomorphism is given, and of the kernel and image of the homomorphism.
FCO may mean:
In particle physics, a fermion is a particle that follows Fermi–Dirac statistics. These particles obey the Pauli exclusion principle.
The Futurians were a group of science fiction fans, many of whom became editors and writers as well. The Futurians were based in New York City and were a major force in the development of science fiction writing and science fiction fandom in the years 1937–1945.
First Fandom is an informal association of early, active and well-known science fiction fans.
; 91 years ago
}}
Federalism is the mixed or compound mode of government, combining a general government (the central or 'federal' government) with regional governments (provincial, state, cantonal, territorial or other sub-unit governments) in a single political system. Its distinctive feature, exemplified in the founding example of modern federalism of the United States of America under the Constitution of 1787, is a relationship of parity between the two levels of government established.
Foreign Legion}}
Feedback occurs when outputs of a system are routed back as inputs as part of a chain of cause-and-effect that forms a circuit or loop. The system can then be said to feed back into itself.
in Japanese. In modern Japanese, it is mostly used to gloss rare kanji, to clarify rare, nonstandard or ambiguous kanji readings, or in children's or learners' materials.
Fugazi is a slang word which refers to something that is fake or damaged beyond repair. It may refer to:
thumb|right|Fluorescent minerals emit visible light when exposed to [[ultraviolet light]]
In number theory, the fundamental theorem of arithmetic, also called the unique factorization theorem or the unique-prime-factorization theorem, states that every integer greater than 1Using the empty product rule one need not exclude the number 1, and the theorem can be stated as: every positive integer has unique prime factorization. either is prime itself or is the product of prime numbers, and that this product is unique, up to the order of the factors.
Father Christmas is the traditional English name for the personification of Christmas. Although now known as a Christmas gift-bringer, and normally considered to be synonymous with Western culture's Santa Claus which is now known worldwide, he was originally part of an unrelated and much older English folkloric tradition.
Federal jurisdiction refers to the legal scope of the government's powers in the  United States of America.  See the 1962 Federal Report titled &quot;JURISDICTION OVER FEDERAL AREAS WITHIN THE STATES&quot;.
Fossil Record is a biannual peer-reviewed scientific journal covering palaeontology. It was established in 1998 as the Mitteilungen aus dem Museum für Naturkunde in Berlin, Geowissenschaftliche Reihe and originally published on behalf of the Museum für Naturkunde by Wiley-VCH; since 2014 it has been published by Copernicus Publications.
In audio and music, frequency modulation synthesis (or FM synthesis) is a form of audio synthesis where the timbre of a simple waveform (such as a square, triangle, or sawtooth) is changed by modulating its frequency with a modulator frequency that is also in the audio range, resulting in a more complex waveform and a different-sounding tone that can also be described as &quot;gritty&quot; if it is a thick and dark timbre. The frequency of an oscillator is altered or distorted, &quot;in accordance with the amplitude of a modulating signal.
Font may mean:
FSB may refer to:
The Fermi paradox or Fermi's paradox, named after physicist Enrico Fermi, is the apparent contradiction between the lack of evidence and high probability estimates, e.g.
Fundamentalism usually has a religious connotation that indicates unwavering attachment to a set of irreducible beliefs. However, fundamentalism has come to be applied to a tendency among certain groups—mainly, though not exclusively, in religion—that is characterized by a markedly strict literalism as it is applied to certain specific scriptures, dogmas, or ideologies, and a strong sense of the importance of maintaining ingroup and outgroup distinctions,Kunst, J.
In the field of computer security, independent researchers often discover flaws in software that can be abused to cause unintended behaviour, these flaws are called vulnerabilities. The process by which the analysis of these vulnerabilities is shared with third parties is the subject of much debate, and is referred to as the researcher’s disclosure policy.
}}
FSK may refer to:
}}
Freeware is software that is available for use at no monetary cost. In other words, while freeware may be used without payment it is most often proprietary software, as usually modification, re-distribution or reverse-engineering without the author's permission is prohibited.
The flat Earth model is an [conception of Earth]'s shape as a [[plane (geometry)|plane or disk. Many ancient cultures subscribed to a flat Earth cosmography, including Greece until the classical period, the Bronze Age and Iron Age civilizations of the Near East until the Hellenistic period, India until the Gupta period (early centuries AD), and China until the 17th century.
Farsi is the indigenous name for the Persian language.
In mathematics, a finite field or Galois field (so-named in honor of Évariste Galois) is a field that contains a finite number of elements.  As with any field, a finite field is a set on which the operations of multiplication, addition, subtraction and division are defined and satisfy certain basic rules.
Franchising is the practice of the right to use a firm's business model and brand  for a prescribed period of time. The word &quot;franchise&quot; is of Anglo-French derivation—from franc, meaning free—and is used both as a noun and as a (transitive) verb.
this article on the Simple English Wikipedia}}
Food writing is writing that focuses on the topic of food, both widely and narrowly defined, and includes work by food critics and food historians.
Four Pillars or four pillars may refer to:
Futurama was an exhibit/ride at the 1939 New York World's Fair designed by Norman Bel Geddes that presented a possible model of the world 20 years into the future (1959–60). Sponsored by the General Motors Corporation, the installation was characterized by its automated highways and vast suburbs.
) by Bonifacio Bembo.  Sforza insisted on being shown in his worn dirty old campaigning hat.
Folk dances are dances that are developed by people that reflect the life of the people of a certain country or region. Not all ethnic dances are folk dances; for example, ritual dances or dances of ritual origin are not considered to be folk dances.
Faith healing is the practice of prayer and gestures (such as laying on of hands) that are claimed to elicit divine intervention in spiritual and physical healing, especially the Christian practice. Citing  Believers assert that the healing of disease and disability can be brought about by religious faith through prayer and/or other rituals that, according to adherents, stimulate a divine presence and power.
Furry may refer to:
In abstract algebra, field extensions are the main object of study in field theory. The general idea is to start with a base field and construct in some manner a larger field that contains the base field and satisfies additional properties.
right|thumb|Recursive flood fill with 4 directions
Saint Francis of Assisi (), born Giovanni di Pietro di Bernardone, informally named as Francesco (1181/11823 October 1226), was an Italian Roman Catholic friar, deacon and preacher. He founded the men's Order of Friars Minor, the women’s Order of Saint Clare, the Third Order of Saint Francis and the Custody of the Holy Land.
The General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon is a single-engine supersonic multirole fighter aircraft originally developed by General Dynamics (now Lockheed Martin) for the United States Air Force (USAF).  Designed as an air superiority day fighter, it evolved into a successful all-weather multirole aircraft.
The First Council of Constantinople ( commonly known as , &quot;Second Ecumenical&quot;;  or ) was a council of Christian bishops convened in Constantinople in AD 381 by the Roman Emperor Theodosius I.Socrates Scholasticus, Church History, book 5, chapters 8 &amp; 11, puts the council in the same year as the revolt of Magnus Maximus and death of Gratian.
The Fourth Council of Constantinople, accepted by some Eastern Orthodox as the Eighth Ecumenical Council, was held in 879–880. It confirmed the reinstatement of Photius as Patriarch of Constantinople.
A factoid is either a false or spurious statement presented as a fact or a true, but brief or trivial, item of news or information.
Figured bass, or thoroughbass, is a kind of musical notation in which numerals and symbols (often accidentals) indicate intervals, chords, and non-chord tones that a musician playing piano, harpsichord, organ, lute (or other instruments capable of playing chords) play in relation to the bass note that these numbers and symbols appear above or below. Figured bass is closely associated with basso continuo, a historically improvised accompaniment used in almost all genres of music in the Baroque period of Classical music (1600–1750), though rarely in modern music.
Fashion is a popular style or practice, especially in clothing, footwear, accessories, makeup, body, or furniture. Fashion is a distinctive and often constant trend in the style in which a person dresses.
In mathematics, Fourier analysis () is the study of the way general functions may be represented or approximated by sums of simpler trigonometric functions. Fourier analysis grew from the study of Fourier series, and is named after Joseph Fourier, who showed that representing a function as a sum of trigonometric functions greatly simplifies the study of heat transfer.
The False Claims Act,31 U.S.
Filtration is any of various mechanical, physical or biological operations that separate solids from fluids (liquids or gases) by adding a medium through which only the fluid can pass. The fluid that passes through is called the filtrate.
Functional theories of grammar are those approaches to the study of language that see functionality of language and its elements to be the key to understanding linguistic processes and structures. Functional theories of language propose that since language is fundamentally a tool, it is reasonable to assume that its structures are best analyzed and understood with reference to the functions they carry out.
Fick's laws of diffusion describe diffusion and were derived by Adolf Fick in 1855. They can be used to solve for the diffusion coefficient, D.
Fawlty Towers is a British television sitcom broadcast on BBC Two from 1975 to 1979. Only 12 episodes were made (2 series of 6 episodes each).
False friends are words in two languages (or letters in two alphabets) that look or sound similar, but differ significantly in meaning. An example is the English embarrassed and the Spanish embarazada (which means pregnant), or the word sensible, which means reasonable in English, but sensitive in French and Spanish.
False cognates are pairs of words that seem to be cognates because of similar sounds and meaning, but have different etymologies; they can be within the same language or from different languages. For example, the English word dog and the Mbabaram word dog have the exact same meaning, but by complete coincidence.
Fundamental analysis, in accounting and finance, is the analysis of a business's financial statements (usually to analyze the business's assets, liabilities, and earnings); health; and its competitors and markets. When applied to futures and forex, it focuses on the overall state of the economy, and considers factors including interest rates, production, earnings, employment, GDP, housing, manufacturing and management.
thumb|right|Fantasy Games Unlimited (FGU) logo
In mathematics, functional decomposition is the process of resolving a functional relationship into its constituent parts in such a way that the original function can be reconstructed (i.e.
Sweet Nothings}}
}}
A false etymology (popular etymology, etymythology, pseudo-etymology, or par(a)etymology), sometimes called folk etymology – although the latter is also a technical term in linguistics - is a popularly held but false belief about the origin or derivation of a specific word.
The true finches are small to medium-sized passerine birds in the family Fringillidae. Finches have stout conical bills adapted for eating seeds and often have colourful plumage.
Facilitated diffusion is the process of spontaneous passive transport of molecules or ions across a cell's membrane via specific transmembrane integral proteins. Being passive, facilitated transport does not directly require chemical energy from ATP hydrolysis in the transport step itself; rather, molecules and ions move down their concentration gradient.
The McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle is an American twin-engine, all-weather tactical fighter aircraft designed by McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing) to gain and maintain air supremacy in aerial combat.   Following reviews of proposals, the United States Air Force selected McDonnell Douglas' design in 1967 to meet the service's need for a dedicated air superiority fighter.
The Grumman F-14 Tomcat is an American supersonic, twin-engine, two-seat, variable-sweep wing fighter aircraft. The Tomcat was developed for the United States Navy's Naval Fighter Experimental (VFX) program after the collapse of the F-111B project.
The Lockheed F-117 Nighthawk is a single-seat, twin-engine stealth attack aircraft that was developed by Lockheed's secretive Skunk Works division and operated by the United States Air Force (USAF).  The F-117 was based on the Have Blue technology demonstrator.
The Vought F4U Corsair is an American fighter aircraft that saw service primarily in World War II and the Korean War. Demand for the aircraft soon overwhelmed Vought's manufacturing capability, resulting in production by Goodyear and Brewster: Goodyear-built Corsairs were designated FG and Brewster-built aircraft F3A.
}}
A fuel cell is an electrochemical cell that converts the chemical energy from a fuel into electricity through an electrochemical reaction of hydrogen-containing fuel with oxygen or another oxidizing agent. Fuel cells are different from batteries in requiring a continuous source of fuel and oxygen (usually from air) to sustain the chemical reaction, whereas in a battery the chemical energy comes from chemicals already present in the battery.
Finlandization (; ; ) is the process by which one powerful country makes a smaller neighboring country abide by the former's foreign policy rules, while allowing it to keep its nominal independence and its own political system. The term literally means &quot;to become like Finland&quot; referring to the influence of the Soviet Union on Finland's policies during the Cold War.
Fantasy films are films that belong to the fantasy genre with fantastic themes, usually magic, supernatural events, mythology, folklore, or exotic fantasy worlds. The genre is considered a form of speculative fiction alongside science fiction films and horror films, although the genres do overlap.
In mathematics, a finite set is a set that has a [number of element]s.  Informally, a finite set is a set which one could in principle count and finish counting.
}}
This list of chess players includes people who are primarily known as chess players and have an article on the English Wikipedia.
The Foresight Institute is a Palo Alto, California-based research non-profit dedicated to promoting the development of nanotechnology (and other emerging technologies). The institute holds conferences on molecular nanotechnology and is one of the independent foundations in the nanotechnology area.
This is a list of invertebrates, animals without a backbone, that are commonly kept in freshwater aquaria by hobby aquarists. Numerous shrimp species of various kinds, crayfish, a number of freshwater snail species, and at least one freshwater clam species are found in freshwater aquaria.
Aquatic plants are used to give the freshwater aquarium a natural appearance, oxygenate the water, and provide habitat for fish, especially fry (babies) and for invertebrates. Some aquarium fish and invertebrates also eat live plants.
thumb|upright=0.4|A fasces image, with the axe in the middle of the bundle of rods
The fast combat support ship (US Navy hull classification symbol: AOE) is the United States Navy's largest combat logistics ship, designed as an oiler, ammunition and supply ship. All fast combat support ships currently in service are operated by Military Sealift Command.
The McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II is a tandem two-seat, twin-engine, all-weather, long-range supersonic jet interceptor and fighter-bomber originally developed for the United States Navy by McDonnell Aircraft.Swanborough and Bowers 1976, p.
The McDonnell FH Phantom was a twin-engined jet fighter aircraft designed and first flown during World War II for the United States Navy. The Phantom was the first purely jet-powered aircraft to land on an American aircraft carrier and the first jet deployed by the United States Marine Corps.
Fricatives are consonants produced by forcing air through a narrow channel made by placing two articulators close together. These may be the lower lip against the upper teeth, in the case of ; the back of the tongue against the soft palate, in the case of German  (the final consonant of Bach); or the side of the tongue against the molars, in the case of Welsh  (appearing twice in the name Llanelli).
Frost is the coating or deposit of ice that may form in humid air in cold conditions, usually overnight. In temperate climates it most commonly appears as fragile white crystals or frozen dew drops near the ground, but in cold climates it occurs in a greater variety of forms.
Franz Schmidt (22 December 187411 February 1939) was an Austrian composer, cellist and pianist.Franz Schmidt (1874-1939) and Dohnányi Ernö (1877-1960): A study in Austro-Hungarian Alternativ.
Fucking may be:
)
The Flynn effect is the substantial and long-sustained increase in both fluid and crystallized intelligence test scores measured in many parts of the world from roughly 1930 to the present day. When intelligence quotient (IQ) tests are initially standardized using a sample of test-takers, by convention the average of the test results is set to 100 and their standard deviation is set to 15 or 16 IQ points.
thumb|Field ion microscope image of the end of a sharp [[platinum needle.  Each bright spot is a platinum atom.
Germany
Ethiopian cavalry at the Battle of Adwa; Italian prisoners are freed following the end of hostilities; Menelik II at Adwa; Ras Makonnen leading Ethiopian troops in the Battle of Amba Alagi
Fur seals are any of nine species of pinnipeds belonging to the Arctocephalinae subfamily in the Otariidae family. They are much more closely related to sea lions than true seals, and share with them external ears  (pinnae), relatively long and muscular foreflippers, and the ability to walk on all fours.
Frisian usually refers to:
Fauna is a collective term for animal life.
*
In geology, felsic refers to igneous rocks that are relatively rich in elements that form feldspar and quartz.Marshak, Stephen, 2009, Essentials of Geology, W.
(West Friesland, Friesland, Groningen)}} (Ostfriesland, Saterland, North Frisia)}}
Futurism was an artistic and social movement that originated in Italy in the early 20th century.
Ferromagnetism is the basic mechanism by which certain materials (such as iron) form permanent magnets, or are attracted to magnets. In physics, several different types of magnetism are distinguished.
F35 (disambiguation)}}
Food additives are substances added to food to preserve flavor or enhance its taste, appearance, or other qualities.
One view is that a free market is a system in which the prices for goods and services are determined by the open market and consumers, in which the laws and forces of supply and demand are free from any intervention by a government, price-setting monopoly, or other authority.  Another view considers systems with significant market power,  inequality of bargaining power, or information asymmetry to be less than free.
.
(As Radio Show March 1998)
The guitar is a musical instrument classified as a fretted string instrument with anywhere from four to 18 strings, usually having six.  The sound is projected either acoustically, using a hollow wooden or plastic and wood box (for an acoustic guitar), or through electrical amplifier and a speaker (for  an electric guitar).
Gnutella ( with a silent g, but often ) (possibly by analogy with the GNU Project) is a large peer-to-peer network.  It was the first decentralized peer-to-peer network of its kind, leading to other, later networks adopting the model.
}}
Gradualism, from Latin gradus (&quot;step&quot;), is a hypothesis, a theory or a tenet assuming that change comes about gradually or that variation is gradual in nature.Brian McGowran.
Greek may refer to:
}}
In Jewish folklore, a golem ( ; ) is an animated anthropomorphic being that is magically created entirely from inanimate matter (specifically clay or mud). The word was used to mean an amorphous, unformed material in Psalms and medieval writing.
Gambling is the [of money] or something of [[Value (economics)|value (referred to as &quot;the stakes&quot;) on an event with an uncertain outcome with the primary intent of winning money or material goods. Gambling thus requires three elements be present:  consideration, chance and prize.
Game theory is &quot;the study of mathematical models of conflict and cooperation between intelligent rational decision-makers&quot;. Game theory is mainly used in economics, political science, and psychology, as well as logic, computer science and biology.
As a densely populated country in a central location in Europe and with a developed economy, Germany has a dense and modern transport infrastructure.
Military of Germany may refer to:
The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) is a Central European country and member of the European Union, G4, G8, the G20, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). It maintains a network of 229 diplomatic missions abroad and holds relations with more than 190 countries.
Germany is a democratic, federal parliamentary republic, and federal legislative power is vested in the Bundestag (the parliament of Germany) and the Bundesrat (the representative body of the Länder, Germany's regional states).
Geometry (from the ; [&quot;earth&quot;, -metron] &quot;measurement&quot;) arose as the field of knowledge dealing with spatial relationships. Geometry was one of the two fields of pre-modern [[mathematics, the other being the study of numbers (arithmetic).
GPS is the Global Positioning System, a satellite-based navigation system.
A genus–differentia definition is a type of intensional definition, and it is composed of two parts:
A firearm is a portable gun – a barreled weapon that launches one or more projectiles, often driven by the action of an explosive force caused by pressure during the discharge of ammunition. US Federal Govt does not consider an air gun to be a firearm and does not regulate airguns as firearms The first primitive firearms originated in 13th-century China when the one-person-portable fire lance was combined with projectiles.
border
The study of galaxy formation and evolution is concerned with the processes that formed a heterogeneous universe from a homogeneous beginning, the formation of the first galaxies, the way galaxies change over time, and the processes that have generated the variety of structures observed in nearby galaxies.
Generation X, or Gen X, is the demographic cohort following the baby boomers and preceding the Millennials.  There are no precise dates for when Generation X starts or ends; demographers and researchers typically use starting birth years ranging from the early-to-mid 1960s and ending birth years ranging from the late 1970s to early 1980s.
}}
Gardening is the practice of growing and cultivating plants as part of horticulture. In gardens, ornamental plants are often grown for their flowers, foliage, or overall appearance; useful plants, such as root vegetables, leaf vegetables, fruits, and herbs, are grown for consumption, for use as dyes, or for medicinal or cosmetic use.
thumb|300px|right|Graffiti on the banks of the [[Tiber river in Rome, Italy.]]
.
The Great Lakes (), also called the Laurentian Great Lakes and the Great Lakes of North America, are a series of interconnected freshwater lakes located primarily in the upper mid-east region of North America, on the Canada–United States border, which connect to the Atlantic Ocean through the Saint Lawrence River. Consisting of Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron (or Michigan–Huron), Erie, and Ontario, they form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth by total area, and second largest by total volume containing 21% of the world's surface fresh water by volume.
German(s) may refer to:
In graph theory, the girth of a graph is the length of a shortest cycle contained in the graph.R.
Gun safety rules and recommendations are intended to avoid accidental discharge or negligent discharge, or the consequences of firearm malfunctions. Their purpose is to eliminate or minimize the risks of unintentional death, injury or damage caused by improper possession, storage, or handling of firearms.
&quot;Go Down Moses&quot;  is an American Negro spiritual. It describes  events in the Old Testament of the Bible, specifically Exodus 8:1: &quot;And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me&quot;, in which God commands Moses to demand the release of the Israelites from bondage in Egypt.
General relativity (GR, also known as the general theory of relativity or GTR) is the geometric theory of gravitation published by Albert Einstein in 1915O'Connor, J.J.
Genealogy (from   from  , &quot;generation&quot; and  , &quot;knowledge&quot;), also known as family history, is the study of families and the tracing of their lineages and history. Genealogists use oral interviews, historical records, genetic analysis, and other records to obtain information about a family and to demonstrate kinship and pedigrees of its members.
Little is known of the history of Gabon prior to European contact. Bantu migrants settled the area beginning in the 14th century.
The Demographics of Gabon is the makeup of the population of Gabon. As of , Gabon has a population of .
Politics of Gabon takes place in a framework of a republic whereby the President of Gabon is head of state and in effect, also the head of government, since he appoints the prime minister and his cabinet. The government is divided into three branches: the Executive (headed by the prime minister (although previously grabbed by the president), the legislative that is formed by the two chambers of parliament.
Telecommunications in Gabon include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Modes of transport in Gabon include rail, road, water, and air. The one rail link, the Trans-Gabon Railway, connects the port of Owendo with the inland town of Franceville.
Air ForceNavy
Gabon has followed a non-aligned policy, advocating dialogue in international affairs and recognizing both parts of divided countries. Since 1973, the number of countries establishing diplomatic relations with Gabon has doubled.
}}
The demographic features of the population of Georgia include population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
Politics in Georgia involve a semi-presidential representative democratic republic with a multi-party system.   The President of Georgia is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Georgia is the head of the Cabinet of Georgia (the national government).
$14.372 billion (est.
Telecommunications in Georgia include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
For Soviet transportation, see Transport in the Soviet Union.
mod.gov.
Georgia's location, nestled between the Black Sea, Russia, and Turkey, renders it strategically important. It is developing as the gateway from the Black Sea to the Caucasus and the larger Caspian region, but also serves as a buffer between Russia and Turkey.
300 – c. 1200) northwest of modern Ghana|Ghana Empire|other uses|}}
The Demography of Ghana describes the condition and overview of Ghana's population. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified religious affiliations.
$116 billion (2015 estimate, PPP)
Telecommunications in Ghana include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Ghana is accomplished by road, rail, air and water. Ghana's transportation and communications networks are centered in the southern regions, especially the areas in which gold, cocoa, and timber are produced.
*
The foreign relations of Ghana are controlled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ghana. Ghana is active in the United Nations and many of its specialised agencies, the World Trade Organization, the Non-Aligned Movement, the Organisation of African Unity (OAU), the African Union (AU) and the Economic Community of West African States.
The history of Gibraltar portrays how The Rock gained an importance and a reputation far exceeding its size, influencing and shaping the people who came to reside here over the centuries.Discover pocket guide to Gibraltar, 5th edition
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Gibraltar, including ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Gibraltar takes place within a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic British Overseas Territory, whereby the Monarch of the United Kingdom is the constitutional head of state represented by the Governor of Gibraltar. The Chief Minister of Gibraltar is the head of Government.
$1.887 billion (2013)
Communications in Gibraltar comprise a wide range of telephony systems (both fixed-line and mobile), Internet access, broadcasting (radio and television) and satellite control. There is also printed and online media.
Gibraltar has a limited public transport system, due to the compact size of the territory.
The name is attributed to Dmitrii Blokhintsev and F. M.
The Göta Canal () is a Swedish canal constructed in the early 19th century. It formed the backbone of a waterway stretching some , linking a number of lakes and rivers to provide a route from Gothenburg (Göteborg) on the west coast to Söderköping on the Baltic Sea via the river Göta älv and the Trollhätte kanal, through the large lakes Vänern and Vättern.
S&amp;P 100 ComponentS&amp;P 500 Component
 (see below), pedestrians and bicycles.
A gulf is a large bay that is an arm of an ocean or sea.
Hellas}}
The politics of Greece takes place in a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Greece is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Hellenic Parliament.
$194.248 billion (nominal, 2016)$289.
The telecommunications and postal services market in Greece is regulated by the Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission (EETT).
Transport in Greece have undergone significant changes in the past two decades, vastly modernizing the country's infrastructure. Although ferry transport between islands remains the prominent method of transport between the nation's islands, improvements to the road infrastructure, rail, urban transport, and airports have all led to a vast improvement in transportation.
As one of the oldest Euro-Atlantic member states in the region of Southeast Europe, Greece enjoys a prominent geopolitical role as a middle power, due to its political and geographical proximity to Europe, Asia, the Middle East, and Africa. Its main allies are the United States, France, Italy, Bulgaria, the other NATO countries, and the European Union.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Greenland, including population density, ethnicity, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Greenland, a &quot;constituent country&quot; () of the Kingdom of Denmark, function in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the prime minister is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
7% (2017 est.)
Telecommunications in Greenland include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
}}
The government of Greenland does not have control of Greenland's military or foreign affairs. The defence of Greenland is the responsibility of Denmark.
Being part of the Kingdom of Denmark, the foreign relations of Greenland are handled in cooperation with the Danish government and Government of Greenland.
The recorded history of the Caribbean island of Grenada begins in the early 17th century. First settled by indigenous peoples, by the time of European contact it was inhabited by the Caribs.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Grenada, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Grenada takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democracy, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government. Grenada is an independent Commonwealth realm.
Grenada has no merchant marine.
The United States, Venezuela, Cuba, and the People's Republic of China have embassies in Grenada. Grenada has been recognized by most members of the United Nations and maintains diplomatic missions in the United Kingdom, the United States, Venezuela, and Canada.
}}
The demographics of Guam include the demographic features of the population of Guam, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Guam is a presidential representative democratic, whereby the Governor is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Guam is an organized, unincorporated territory of the United States with policy relations between Guam and the US under the jurisdiction of the Office of Insular Affairs.
Though Guam is a United States territory, some U.S.
The United States territory of Guam has no railways or freeways, nor does it have a merchant marine.  The largest port is Apra Harbor,  which serves almost all commercial traffic including cruise, cargo and fishing vessels.
The Mayan civilization (2,000 BC – 250 AD) was among those that flourished in the region, with little contact with cultures outside Mesoamerica. The modern history of Guatemala began with the Spanish conquest of Guatemala in 1511.
The Demographics of Guatemala are diverse, the 16,548,168 people (June 2016)Guatemala: Estimaciones de la Población total por municipio. Período 2008-2020 consist primarily of Mestizos, Amerindians, and people of European descent.
Politics of Guatemala takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, where by the President of Guatemala is both head of state, head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Guatemala include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transportation in Guatemala includes roads (a majority unpaved), waterways, and airports.  It formerly included railways.
The Guatemalan Armed Forces consists of the National Army of Guatemala (Ejercito Nacional de Guatemala, ENG), the Guatemalan National Defense Navy (Marina de la Defensa Nacional, includes Marines), the Guatemalan Air Force (Fuerza Aerea Guatemalteca, FAG), and the Presidential Honor Guard (Guardia de Honor Presidencial).
Guatemala's major diplomatic interests are regional security and increasingly, regional development and economic integration.
Sarnia Cheriea
The history of Guernsey stretches back to evidence of prehistoric habitation and settlement and encompasses the development of its modern society.
Politics of Guernsey take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic British Crown dependency.
The modern state of Guinea did not come into existence until 1958, but the history of the area stretches back well before European colonization. Its current boundaries were determined during the colonial period by the Berlin Conference (1884-1885) and the French, who ruled Guinea until 1958.
Guinea is a country on the coast of West Africa and is bordered by Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Mali, Ivory Coast, Liberia, and Sierra Leone.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Guinea, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Guinea takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Guinea is both head of state and head of government of Guinea. Executive power is exercised by the government.
}}
Telecommunications in Guinea include radio, television, fixed and mobile radio, and the Internet.
Transport in Guinea  is composed by a variety of systems that people in the country use to get around as well as to and from domestic and international destinations.
The foreign relations of Guinea, including those with its West African neighbors, have improved steadily since 1985.Background Note: Guinea, US Department of State, February 2009
Guinea-Bissau was dominated by Portugal from the 1450s to the 1970s; since independence, the country has been primarily controlled by a single-party system.
This article describes the geography of Guinea-Bissau.
thumb|450px|Guinea-Bissau's population between 1961 and 2003.
Politics of Guinea-Bissau takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic in transition, whereby the President is head of state and the Prime Minister is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$1.963 billion (PPP) (2012 est.
Telecommunications in Guinea-Bissau include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport infrastructure in Guinea-Bissau is basic, with most roads outside the capital being unpaved.
Politics of Guyana takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Guyana is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President, advised by a cabinet.
The transport sector comprises the physical infrastructure, docks and vehicle, terminals, fleets, ancillary equipment and service delivery of all the various modes of transport operating in Guyana. The transport services, transport agencies providing these services, the organizations and people who plan, build, maintain, and operate the system, and the policies that mold its development.
After independence in 1966, Guyana sought an influential role in international affairs, particularly among Third World and non-aligned nations. It served twice on the UN Security Council (1975–76 and 1982–83).
Geology (from the Ancient Greek γῆ, gē, i.e.
}}
Gothenburg
thumb|right|180px|[[Western films are those &quot;set in the American West that embod[y] the spirit, the struggle and the demise of the new frontier.&quot; Pictured is Clint Eastwood in the Western film A Fistful of Dollars (1964).
The great man theory is a 19th-century idea according to which history can be largely explained by the impact of great men, or heroes; highly influential individuals who, due to either their personal charisma, intelligence, wisdom, or political skill used their power in a way that had a decisive historical impact. The theory was popularized in the 1840s by Scottish writer Thomas Carlyle.
The Generic Universal RolePlaying System, or GURPS, is a tabletop role-playing game system designed to allow for play in any game setting. It was created by Steve Jackson Games and first published in 1986 at a time when most such systems were story- or genre-specific.
A government is the system by which a state or community is controlled. In the Commonwealth of Nations, the word &quot;government&quot; is also used more narrowly to refer to the collective group of people that exercises executive authority in a state.
-  (See remarks)Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
The Göktürks, Celestial Turks, Blue Turks or Kok Turks (Old Turkic: 𐱅𐰇𐰼𐰰:𐰜𐰇𐰛 Kök Türük , Khotanese Saka Ttūrka, Ttrūka, Old Tibetan Drugu), were a nomadic confederation of Turkic peoples in medieval Inner Asia. The Göktürks, under the leadership of Bumin Qaghan (d.
GDP or gross domestic product is the basic measure of a country's overall economic output.
Guilt|Guilty (disambiguation)Guilty}}
Gold is a chemical element with symbol Au (from ) and atomic number 79. In its purest form, it is a bright, slightly reddish yellow, dense, soft, malleable, and ductile metal.
Gallium is a chemical element with symbol Ga and atomic number 31. It is in group 13 of the periodic table, and thus has similarities to the other metals of the group, aluminium, indium, and thallium.
Germanium is a chemical element with symbol Ge and atomic number 32. It is a lustrous, hard, grayish-white metalloid in the carbon group, chemically similar to its group neighbors tin and silicon.
Gadolinium is a chemical element with symbol Gd and atomic number 64. Gadolinium is a silvery-white, malleable, and ductile rare earth metal.
Gaudy Night (1935) is a mystery novel by Dorothy L. Sayers, the tenth in her popular series about aristocratic sleuth Lord Peter Wimsey, and the third featuring crime writer Harriet Vane.
G (named gee )The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language. 1976.
A goitre or goiter is a swelling in the neck resulting from an enlarged thyroid gland. The term is also used to describe an enlarged thyroid.
Genetics is the study of genes, genetic variation, and heredity in living organisms.Hartl D, Jones E (2005) It is generally considered a field of biology, but intersects frequently with many other life sciences and is strongly linked with the study of information systems.
In anatomy, a ganglion ( ; plural ganglia) is a nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system and sensory system. Ganglia house the cell bodies of afferent nerves and efferent nerves.
Gamma World is a science fantasy role-playing game, originally designed by James M. Ward and Gary Jaquet, and first published by TSR in 1978.
A grimoire ( ) is a textbook of magic, typically including instructions on how to create magical objects like talismans and amulets, how to perform magical spells, charms and divination, and how to summon or invoke supernatural entities such as angels, spirits, and demons.Davies (2009:1) In many cases, the books themselves are believed to be imbued with magical powers, though in many cultures, other sacred texts that are not grimoires (such as the Bible) have been believed to have supernatural properties intrinsically.
Le Théâtre du Grand-Guignol (: &quot;The Theatre of the Great Puppet&quot;)—known as the Grand Guignol—was a theatre in the Pigalle area of Paris (at 20 bis, ). From its opening in 1897 until its closing in 1962, it specialised in naturalistic horror shows.
The Great Plague, lasting from 1665 to 1666, was the last major epidemic of the bubonic plague to occur in England. It happened within the centuries-long time period of the Second Pandemic, an extended period of intermittent bubonic plague epidemics which began in Europe in 1347, the first year of the Black Death, an outbreak which included other forms such as pneumonic plague, and lasted until 1750.
The graphical user interface (GUI ), is a type of user interface that allows users to interact with electronic devices through graphical icons and visual indicators such as secondary notation, instead of text-based user interfaces, typed command labels or text navigation. GUIs were introduced in reaction to the perceived steep learning curve of command-line interfaces (CLIs),Computerhope.
A gamete (from Ancient Greek γαμετή gamete from gamein &quot;to marry&quot;) is a haploid cell that fuses  with another haploid cell during fertilization (conception) in organisms that sexually reproduce. In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm.
Category:Lists of phrases
The fictional world in which the A Song of Ice and Fire novels by George R. R.
The title Grandmaster is awarded to chess players by the world chess organization FIDE. Apart from World Champion, Grandmaster is the highest title a chess player can attain.
thumb|right|200px|[[Boston's Big Dig presented geotechnical challenges in an urban environment.]]
Gestation is the carrying of an embryo or fetus inside female viviparous animals. It is typical for mammals, but also occurs for some non-mammals.
In mathematics, the gamma function (represented by the capital Greek alphabet letter ) is an extension of the factorial function, with its argument shifted down by 1, to real and complex numbers. That is, if  is a positive integer:
Gilbert Cesbron (13 January 1913, Paris – 13 August 1979, Paris) was a French novelist.
210 AD
Glossolalia or speaking in tongues is a phenomenon in which people appear to speak in languages unknown to them. One definition used by linguists is the fluid vocalizing of speech-like syllables that lack any readily comprehended meaning, in some cases as part of religious practice in which it is believed to be a divine language unknown to the speaker.
(royal)
A gladiator (, &quot;swordsman&quot;, from , &quot;sword&quot;) was an armed combatant who entertained audiences in the Roman Republic and Roman Empire in violent confrontations with other gladiators, wild animals, and condemned criminals. Some gladiators were volunteers who risked their lives and their legal and social standing by appearing in the arena.
A GMO is a genetically modified organism.
A genetically modified organism (GMO) is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e.
Guadalupe}}
Guadeloupe has a population of 403,977 (2012).
thumb|320px|In green (with red legend) are the constituent parts of the Guadeloupe région/département among the [[Leeward Islands. The 2 islands of Guadeloupe proper are: Basse-Terre Island (left) and Grande-Terre (right).
Guadeloupe sends four deputies to the French National Assembly and three senators to the French Senate.
The economy of Guadeloupe depends on agriculture, tourism, light industry, and services. It also depends on mainland France for large subsidies and imports.
Telephones - main lines in use:
Transport in Guadeloupe.
In mathematics, the greatest common divisor (gcd) of two or more integers, which are not all zero, is the largest positive integer that divides each of the integers.  For example, the gcd of 8 and 12 is 4.
Gazpacho (; ) or Andalusian Gazpacho is a soup made of raw vegetables and served cold,Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd. ed cites R.
A gopher, also known as a &quot;pocket gopher&quot; (family Geomyidae), is a burrowing rodent native to North America and Central America.
(1923)
A googolplex is the number 10, or equivalently, 10)}}. Written out in ordinary decimal notation, it is 1 followed by 10100 zeroes, that is, a 1 followed by a googol of zeroes.
}}
}}
A guild   is an association of artisans or merchants who oversee the practice of their craft in a particular town. The earliest types of guild were formed as confraternities of tradesmen.
A gamemaster (GM; also known as game master, game manager, game moderator or referee) is a person who acts as an organizer, officiant for questions regarding rules, arbitrator, and moderator for a multiplayer role-playing game.
Genetic engineering, also called genetic modification, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genome using biotechnology. It is a set of technologies used to change the genetic makeup of cells, including the transfer of genes within and across species boundaries to produce improved or novel organisms.
The Gettysburg Address is a speech by U.S.
The genetic code is the set of rules by which information encoded within genetic material (DNA or mRNA sequences) is translated into proteins by living cells. Translation is accomplished by the ribosome, which links amino acids in an order specified by mRNA, using transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to carry amino acids and to read the mRNA three nucleotides at a time.
the pop music album|Golden number (time)the calendar dates}}
In modern molecular biology and genetics, a genome is the genetic material of an organism. It consists of DNA (or RNA in RNA viruses).
Gaia philosophy (named after Gaia, Greek goddess of the Earth) is a broadly inclusive term for related concepts that living organisms on a planet will affect the nature of their environment in order to make the environment more suitable for life. This set of theories holds that all organisms on a life-giving planet regulate the biosphere in such a way as to promote its habitability.
thumb|upright=1.9|right|A representation of the exchanges of energy between the source (the [[Sun), Earth's surface, the Earth's atmosphere, and the ultimate sink outer space.
right|thumb|250px|Image of a group homomorphism (h) from G (left) to H (right). The smaller oval inside H is the image of h.
In abstract algebra, a group isomorphism is a function between two groups that sets up a one-to-one correspondence between the elements of the groups in a way that respects the given group operations. If there exists an isomorphism between two groups, then the groups are called isomorphic.
A geographic information system (GIS) is a system designed to capture, store, manipulate, analyze, manage, and present spatial or geographic data. The acronym GIS is sometimes used for geographic information science (GIScience) to refer to the academic discipline that studies geographic information systems and is a large domain within the broader academic discipline of geoinformatics.
In mathematics,  graph theory is the study of graphs, which are mathematical structures used to model pairwise relations between objects. A graph in this context is made up of vertices, nodes, or points which are connected by edges, arcs, or lines.
Gibberish, jibberish, jibber-jabber, and gobbledygook refer to speech or other use of language that is nonsense, or that appears to be nonsense. It may include speech sounds that are not actual words, or forms such as language games or highly specialized jargon that seems non-sensical to outsiders.
Gnaeus Julius Agricola (; 13 June 40 – 23 August 93)  was a Gallo-Roman general responsible for much of the Roman conquest of Britain. Written by his son-in-law Tacitus, the De vita et moribus Iulii Agricolae is the primary source for most of what is known about him,Tacitus, Agricola; Dio Cassius (Roman History 66.
Gödel's ontological proof is a formal argument by the mathematician Kurt Gödel (1906–1978) for God's existence. More precisely, it presupposes the notion of positive and negative properties, and proves the necessary existence of an object which each positive property, but no negative property, applies to.
Gymnasts are people who participate in the sport of gymnastics. This sport contains disciplines that include, but are not limited to:
In artificial intelligence, genetic programming (GP) is a technique whereby computer programs are encoded as a set of genes that are then modified (evolved) using an evolutionary algorithm (often a genetic algorithm, &quot;GA&quot;) – it is an application of (for example) genetic algorithms where the space of solutions consists of computer programs. The results are computer programs able to perform well in a predefined task.
border
A genius is a person who displays exceptional intellectual ability, creative productivity, universality in genres or originality, typically to a degree that is associated with the achievement of new advances in a domain of knowledge. Despite the presence of scholars in many subjects throughout history, many geniuses have shown high achievements in only a single kind of activity.
Grains are coarse particles such as sand particles, salt particles or seeds:
Grass may refer to:
A grape is a fruit, botanically a  berry, of the deciduous woody vines of the flowering plant genus Vitis.
A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital).  Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions.
Genocide is intentional action to destroy a people (usually defined as an ethnic, national, racial, or religious group) in whole or in part. The hybrid word &quot;genocide&quot; is a combination of the Greek word génos (&quot;race, people&quot;) and the Latin suffix -cide (&quot;act of killing&quot;)..
George Clinton usually refers to:
The Germanic peoples (also called Teutonic, Suebian, or Gothic in older literature) are an Indo-European ethno-linguistic group of Northern European origin. They are identified by their use of Germanic languages, which diversified out of Proto-Germanic during the Pre-Roman Iron Age.
Gödel's completeness theorem is a fundamental theorem in mathematical logic that establishes a correspondence between semantic truth and syntactic provability in first-order logic. It makes a close link between model theory that deals with what is true in different models, and proof theory that studies what can be formally proven in particular formal systems.
A Global Boundary Stratotype Section and Point, abbreviated GSSP, is an internationally agreed upon reference point on a stratigraphic section which defines the lower boundary of a stage on the geologic time scale.  The effort to define GSSPs is conducted by the International Commission on Stratigraphy, a part of the International Union of Geological Sciences.
In Norse mythology, Geri and Freki (Old Norse, both meaning &quot;the ravenous&quot; or &quot;greedy one&quot;) are two wolves which are said to accompany the god Odin. They are attested in the Poetic Edda, a collection of epic poetry compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, in the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson, and in the poetry of skalds.
In Norse mythology, Ginnungagap (&quot;gaping abyss&quot;, &quot;yawning void&quot;) is  the  primordial void, mentioned in the Gylfaginning, the Eddaic text recording Norse cosmogony. Norse mythology|work=Encyclopedia Britannica|access-date=2017-08-12|language=en}}
In mathematics, the gradient is a multi-variable generalization of the derivative.  While a derivative can be defined on functions of a single variable, for functions of several variables, the gradient takes its place.
The gauss, abbreviated as G or Gs, is the cgs unit of measurement of magnetic flux density (or &quot;magnetic induction&quot;) (B). It is named after German mathematician and physicist Carl Friedrich Gauss.
A glacier ( or ) is a persistent body of dense ice that is constantly moving under its own weight; it forms where the accumulation of snow exceeds its ablation (melting and sublimation) over many years, often centuries. Glaciers slowly deform and flow due to stresses induced by their weight, creating crevasses, seracs, and other distinguishing features.
thumb|Gylfi is tricked in an illustration from [[Icelandic Manuscript, SÁM 66]]
The Glorious Revolution, also called the Revolution of 1688, was the overthrow of King James II of England (James VII of Scotland) by a union of English Parliamentarians with the Dutch stadtholder William III, Prince of Orange.  William's successful invasion of England with a Dutch fleet and army led to his ascension to the throne as William III of England jointly with his wife, Mary II, James's daughter, after the Declaration of Right, leading to the Bill of Rights 1689.
The Great Lakes Colleges Association (GLCA) is a consortium of 13 liberal arts colleges located in the states around the Great Lakes. The 13 schools are located in Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Indiana.
* Ireland
Gnosticism (from  gnostikos, &quot;having knowledge&quot;, from  , knowledge) is a modern name for a variety of ancient religious ideas and systems, originating in Jewish milieus in the first and second century AD. Based on their readings of the Torah and other Biblical writings, these systems induced that the material world is created by an emanation of the highest God, trapping the Divine spark within the human body.
Gregor Aichinger (c. 1565 – 21 January 1628) was a German composer.
The Gospel of Barnabas is a book depicting the life of Jesus, which claims to be by the biblical Barnabas who in this work is one of the twelve apostles. Two manuscripts are known to have existed, both dated to the late 16th or early 17th centuries, with one written in Italian and the other in Spanish.
Giulio Alberoni (30 May 1664 OS – 26 June NS 1752) was an Italian cardinal and
Gil Álvarez Carrillo de Albornoz () (1310 – 23 August 1367) was a Spanish cardinal and ecclesiastical leader.
thumb|right
thumb|Alessi's original project for the façade of Palazzo Marino, Milan, altered in the execution
For various examples of cuisine, see List of German dishes.
Greek cuisine is a Mediterranean cuisine.Spices and Seasonings:A Food Technology Handbook - Donna R.
The Gospel According to Mark (, to kata Markon euangelion), the second book of the New Testament, is one of the four canonical gospels and one of the three synoptic gospels. It tells of the ministry of Jesus from his baptism by John the Baptist to his death and burial and the discovery of the empty tomb – there is no genealogy or birth narrative, nor, in the original ending at chapter 16, any post-resurrection appearances.
The Gospel According to Luke (, to kata Loukan evangelion), also called the Gospel of Luke, or simply Luke, is the third of the four canonical Gospels. It tells of the origins, birth, ministry, atonement, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ.
The Gospel According to Matthew (; also called the Gospel of Matthew or simply, Matthew) is the first book of the New Testament. The narrative tells how the Messiah, Jesus, rejected by Israel, finally sends the disciples to preach the gospel to the whole world.
The Gospel According to John (; also called the Gospel of John, the Fourth Gospel, or simply John) is one of the four canonical gospels in the New Testament. It traditionally appears fourth, after the Synoptic Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke.
Gregorio Allegri (7 February 1652)Gregorio Allegri classical.net, 2013.
-
}}
thumb|Montage of [[Jupiter's four Galilean moons, in a composite image depicting part of Jupiter and their relative sizes (positions are illustrative, not actual). From top to bottom: Io, Europa, Ganymede, Callisto.
Great Schism may refer to:
Gerald Lawrence Schroeder is an Orthodox Jewish physicist, author, lecturer and teacher at College of Jewish Studies Aish HaTorah's Discovery Seminar, Essentials and Fellowships programs and Executive Learning Center, who focuses on what he perceives to be an inherent relationship between science and spirituality.
In folklore, a ghost (sometimes known as an apparition, haunt, phantom, poltergeist, shade, specter or spectre, spirit, spook, and wraith) is the soul or spirit of a dead person or animal that can appear to the living. Descriptions of ghosts vary widely from an invisible presence to translucent or barely visible wispy shapes, to realistic, lifelike visions.
Cis–trans isomerism, also known as geometric isomerism or configurational isomerism, is a term used in organic chemistry. The prefixes &quot;cis&quot; and &quot;trans&quot; are from Latin.
right|250px|thumb|&quot;No one gave him a thought of pity save little Agnar&quot; by George Wright. The younger Agnarr offering the tortured Grímnir something to drink.
Geocaching  is an outdoor recreational activity, in which participants use a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver or mobile device and other navigational techniques to hide and seek containers, called &quot;geocaches&quot; or &quot;caches&quot;, at specific locations marked by coordinates all over the world.
or ~
Golden Heroes is a superhero role-playing game that was originally written and published on an amateur basis in 1982. Games Workshop then published a more complete version in 1984.
, see Gwangju, Gyeonggi.}}
In grammar, genitive (abbreviated ;Glossing Rules. Department of Linguistics.
}}
In mathematics, especially in category theory and homotopy theory, a groupoid (less often Brandt groupoid or virtual group) generalises the notion of group in several equivalent ways. A groupoid can be seen as a:
The galliard (; ; ) was a form of Renaissance dance and music popular all over Europe in the 16th century. It is mentioned in dance manuals from England, France, Spain, Germany, and Italy.
General surgery is a surgical specialty that focuses on abdominal contents including esophagus, stomach, small bowel, colon, liver, pancreas, gallbladder and bile ducts, and often the thyroid gland (depending on local reference patterns). They also deal with diseases involving the skin, breast, soft tissue, trauma, peripheral vascular surgery and hernias.
GURPS Supers is a superhero roleplaying game written by Loyd Blankenship and published by Steve Jackson Games. The first edition was published in 1989.
}}
Gymnastics is a men's and women's sport that requires balance, strength, flexibility, agility, coordination, endurance and control. The movements involved in gymnastics contribute to the development of the arms, legs, shoulders, back, chest and abdominal muscle groups.
Early Pliocene – Late Holocene
Glorantha is a fantasy world created by Greg Stafford. It was first introduced in the board game White Bear and Red Moon (1975) by Chaosium, and thereafter in a number of other board, roleplaying and computer games, including RuneQuest and HeroQuest, as well as several works of fiction and the computer strategy game King of Dragon Pass.
Gram is a unit of measurement of mass.
A galaxy is a gravitationally bound system of stars, stellar remnants, interstellar gas, dust, and dark matter. The word galaxy is derived from the Greek  (), literally &quot;milky&quot;, a reference to the Milky Way.
In hand-to-hand combat, grappling is a close fighting technique used to gain a physical advantage such as improving relative position, or causing injury to the opponent. Grappling covers techniques used in many disciplines, styles and martial arts that are practiced both as combat sports and for self-defense.
In linguistics, grammar (from Greek: ) is the set of structural rules governing the composition of clauses, phrases, and words in any given natural language. The term refers also to the study of such rules, and this field includes  phonology, morphology, and syntax, often complemented by phonetics, semantics, and pragmatics.
The gigabyte (  or The prefix giga may be pronounced two ways. Gigabyte - Definition and More from the Free Merriam-Webster Dictionary) is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information.
Galaxy groups and clusters are the largest known gravitationally bound objects to have arisen thus far in the process of cosmic structure formation.Voit, G.
, or colloquially ; genitive
GIA or Gia may refer to:
(aged 70)
Giga ( or ) is a unit prefix in the metric system denoting a factor of a (short-form) billion (109 or ). It has the symbol G.
In linguistics, a grapheme is the smallest unit of a writing system of any given language.Coulmas, F.
Glass is a non-crystalline amorphous solid that is often transparent and has widespread practical, technological, and decorative usage in, for example, window panes, tableware, and optoelectronics. The most familiar, and historically the oldest, types of glass are &quot;silicate glasses&quot; based on the chemical compound silica (silicon dioxide, or quartz), the primary constituent of sand.
200px|thumb|right|Digital image of 3 plasmid restriction digests run on a 1% w/v agarose gel, 3 volt/cm, stained with ethidium bromide. The DNA size marker is a commercial 1 kbp ladder.
thumb|350px|Micrograph of Golgi apparatus, visible as a stack of semicircular black rings near the bottom. Numerous circular [[Vesicle (biology and chemistry)|vesicles can be seen in proximity to the organelle.
GFDL may refer to:
235px|thumb|GNU logo __NOTOC__
Gross domestic product (GDP) is a monetary measure of the market value of all final goods and services produced in a period (quarterly or yearly) of time. Nominal GDP estimates are commonly used to determine the economic performance of a whole country or region, and to make international comparisons.
A grid network is a computer network consisting of a number of (computer) systems connected in a grid topology.
}}
Geodesy (),OED — also known as geodetics, geodetic engineering or geodetics engineering — a branch of applied mathematics Merriam-Webster Dictionary and earth sciences, is the scientific discipline that deals with the measurement and representation of the Earth (or any planet), including its gravitational field, in a three-dimensional time-varying space. Geodesists also study geodynamical phenomena such as crustal motion, tides, and polar motion.
A Eurogame, also called a German-style board game, German game, or Euro-style game, is a class of tabletop games that generally have indirect player interaction and abstract physical components. Euro-style games emphasize strategy while downplaying luck and conflict.
A Grand Unified Theory (GUT) is a model in particle physics in which at high energy, the three gauge interactions of the Standard Model which define the electromagnetic, weak, and strong interactions, or forces, are merged into one single force. This unified interaction is characterized by one larger gauge symmetry and thus several force carriers, but one unified coupling constant.
GTE Corporation, formerly General Telephone &amp; Electric Corporation (1955–1982), was the largest independent telephone company in the United States during the days of the Bell System. The company operated from 1926, with roots tracing further back than that, until 2000, when it got acquired by Bell Atlantic; the combined company took the name Verizon.
thumb|right|A [[Diamond DA20, a popular trainer used by many flight schools]]
Grue may refer to:
The Gracchus brothers, Tiberius and Gaius, were Romans who both served as tribunes in the late 2nd century BC. They attempted to pass land reform legislation that would redistribute the major aristocratic landholdings among the urban poor and veterans, in addition to other reform measures.
Gossip is idle talk or rumor, especially about the personal or private affairs of others; the act is also known as dishing or tattling.
G4 or G.IV may refer to:
Garbage collection, or waste collection, is part of municipal waste management.
A guitarist (or a guitar player) is a person who plays the guitar. Guitarists may play a variety of guitar family instruments such as classical guitars, acoustic guitars, electric guitars, and bass guitars.
}}
A gospel (meaning &quot;good news&quot;, comparable to the Greek , euangelion) is a written account of the career and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth. The word originally meant the Christian message itself, but in the 2nd century it came to be used for the books in which the message was set out.
Global illumination (shortened as GI), or indirect illumination, is a general name for a group of algorithms used in 3D computer graphics that are meant to add more realistic lighting to 3D scenes. Such algorithms take into account not only the light that comes directly from a light source (direct illumination), but also subsequent cases in which light rays from the same source are reflected by other surfaces in the scene, whether reflective or not (indirect illumination).
In mathematics, a geometric series is a series with a constant ratio between successive terms.  For example, the series
Greece has an extremely large number of islands, with estimates ranging from somewhere around 1,200 to 6,000, depending on the minimum size to take into account. The number of inhabited islands is variously cited as between 166 and 227.
German literature comprises those literary texts written in the German language. This includes literature written in Germany, Austria, the German parts of Belgium and Switzerland, Liechtenstein, South Tyrol in Italy and to a lesser extent works of the German diaspora.
Galilee (, transliteration HaGalil); , translit. al-Jalīl)  is a region in northern Israel.
The Goths were an East Germanic people, two of whose branches, the Visigoths and the Ostrogoths, played an important role in the fall of the Western Roman Empire and the emergence of Medieval Europe. The Goths dominated a vast area, which at its peak under the Germanic king Ermanaric and his sub-king Athanaric possibly extended all the way from the Danube to the Don, and from the Black Sea to the Baltic Sea.
Glycolysis (from glycose, an older termWebster's New International Dictionary of the English Language, 2nd ed. (1937) Merriam Company, Springfield, Mass.
Gary may refer to:
Saint Gregory the Illuminator or Saint Gregory the Enlightener (classical ; Grigor Lusavorich) Gregorios Phoster or  Gregorios Photistes;  }} ( – ) is the patron saint and first official head of the Armenian Apostolic Church. He was a religious leader who is credited with converting Armenia from paganism to Christianity in 301.
God Emperor of Dune is a science fiction novel by Frank Herbert published in 1981, the fourth in his Dune series of six novels. It was ranked as the number 11 hardcover fiction best seller of 1981 by Publishers Weekly.
thumb|right|&quot;Arthur&quot;, The world's first parabolic satellite communications antenna
__NOTOC__
Groningen is a city in the Netherlands.
Francisco Goya (1746–1828) was a Spanish romantic painter and printmaker.
A general-purpose machine gun (GPMG) is an air-cooled, belt-fed weapon with a quick change barrel that can be used in a variety of roles, from bipod- or tripod-mounted infantry support, to deployment as a helicopter door gun, or a vehicle-mounted support weapon. Modern GPMGs fire full-power rifle cartridges such as the 7.
Left to right: Gdynia Sea TowersPort of GdyniaDar Pomorza sailing shipPier in OrłowoBaltic Sea
The Book of Genesis (from the Latin Vulgate, in turn borrowed or transliterated from Greek , meaning &quot;Coming into Being&quot;; , Bərēšīṯ, &quot;In [the] beginning&quot;) is the first book of the Hebrew Bible (the Tanakh) and the Christian Old Testament.Hamilton (1990), p.
GM or Gm may refer to:
In mathematics, more specifically in the area of abstract algebra known as Galois theory, the Galois group of a certain type of field extension is a specific group associated with the field extension. The study of field extensions and their relationship to the polynomials that give rise to them via Galois groups is called Galois theory, so named in honor of Évariste Galois who first discovered them.
thumb|Gallienus depicted on a lead [[Seal (device)|seal]]
thumb|Depiction of a 13th-century Gambeson ([[Morgan Bible, fol. 10r)]]
Gauntlet most often refers to:
A grand jury is a legal body empowered to conduct official proceedings and investigate potential criminal conduct, and determine whether criminal charges should be brought. A grand jury may compel the production of documents and compel sworn testimony of witnesses to appear before it.
Gun laws and policies (collectively referred to as firearms regulation or gun control) regulate the manufacture, sale, transfer, possession, modification and use of small arms by civilians. Many countries have restrictive firearm policies, while a few have permissive ones.
List of Yu Yu Hakusho chapters}}
Gimp or GIMP may refer to:
The gymnosphaerids (or Gymnosphaerida) are a small group of heliozoan protists found in marine environments.  They tend to be roughly spherical with radially directed axopods, supported by microtubules in a triangular-hexagonal array arising from an amorphous central granule.
In the mathematical field of representation theory, group representations describe abstract groups in terms of linear transformations of vector spaces; in particular, they can be used to represent group elements as matrices so that the group operation can be represented by matrix multiplication. Representations of groups are important because they allow many group-theoretic problems to be reduced to problems in linear algebra, which is well understood.
Gardnerian Wicca, or Gardnerian witchcraft, is a
Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) is the mean solar time at the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, London. GMT was formerly used as the international civil time standard, now superseded in that function by Coordinated Universal Time (UTC).
Guy Fawkes (; 13 April 1570 – 31 January 1606), also known as Guido Fawkes, the name he adopted while fighting for the Spanish, was a member of a group of provincial English Catholics who planned the failed Gunpowder Plot of 1605.
The Goodtimes Virus was a computer virus hoax that spread during the early years of the Internet's popularity. Warnings about a computer virus named &quot;Good Times&quot; began being passed around among Internet users in 1994.
right|thumb|The &quot;Gonzo fist&quot;, characterized by two thumbs and four fingers holding a [[peyote button, was originally used in Hunter S. Thompson's 1970 campaign for sheriff of Aspen, Colorado.
In music, a glissando  (plural: glissandi, abbreviated gliss.)  is a [from one pitch] to another ().
Miocene to Recent
thumb|450px|right|Griffith's experiment discovering the &quot;transforming principle&quot; in [[pneumococcus bacteria.]]
Gorilla Warfare}}
The proof of Gödel's completeness theorem given by Kurt Gödel in his doctoral dissertation of 1929 (and a rewritten version of the dissertation, published as an article in 1930) is not easy to read today; it uses concepts and formalism that are no longer used and terminology that is often obscure. The version given below attempts to represent all the steps in the proof and all the important ideas faithfully, while restating the proof in the modern language of mathematical logic.
Grits are a food made from corn that is ground into a coarse meal and then boiled. Hominy grits are a type of grits made from hominy with the germ removed, which is corn that has been treated with an alkali in a process called nixtamalization.
DJIA ComponentS&amp;P 100 ComponentS&amp;P 500 Component
A giant planet is any massive planet. They are usually primarily composed of low-boiling-point materials (gases or ices), rather than rock or other solid matter, but massive solid planets can also exist.
A goddess is a female deity in polytheistic religions. Goddesses most often have feminine characteristics that are apotheosize in their pure form.
This list contains the names of individuals (of any ethnicity or nationality) who wrote poetry in the German language. Most are identified as &quot;German poets&quot;, but some are not German.
Gunpowder, also known as black powder to distinguish it from modern smokeless gunpowder, is the earliest known chemical explosive. It consists of a mixture of sulfur, charcoal, and potassium nitrate (saltpeter).
Grampus may refer to:
thumb|300px|right| Gesta Danorum ([[Angers Fragment), page 1, front.]]
Ancient Galatia (; , ) was an area in the highlands of central Anatolia (Ankara, Çorum, Yozgat Province) in modern Turkey. Galatia was named for the immigrant Gauls from Thrace (cf.
Galatians may refer to:
}}
Giacomo Antonio Domenico Michele Secondo Maria Puccini (; 22 December 1858 29 November 1924) was an Italian opera composer who has been called &quot;the greatest composer of Italian opera after Verdi&quot;.Ravenni and Girardi, n.
Gramophone might refer to:
The gas mask is a mask used to protect the user from inhaling airborne pollutants and toxic gases.  The mask forms a sealed cover over the nose and mouth, but may also cover the eyes and other vulnerable soft tissues of the face.
()
right|thumb|200px|Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina
frame|[[Dispersion (water waves)|Frequency dispersion in groups of gravity waves on the surface of deep water. The red dot moves with the phase velocity, and the green dots propagate with the group velocity.
Glitnir (glit, nitor, splendor, OHG. kliz, E.
In mathematics, an action of a group is a formal way of interpreting the manner in which the elements of the group correspond to transformations of some space in a way that preserves the structure of that space. Common examples of spaces that groups act on are sets, vector spaces, and topological spaces.
A general anaesthetic (or anesthetic, see spelling differences) is a drug that can bring about a reversible loss of consciousness. Anaesthetists, physician assistants or nurse anaesthetists administer these drugs to induce or maintain general anaesthesia to facilitate surgery.
(aged 56–57)
Gerald Gardner}}
The Gopher protocol  is a TCP/IP application layer protocol designed for distributing, searching, and retrieving documents over the Internet. The Gopher protocol was strongly oriented towards a menu-document design and presented an alternative to the World Wide Web in its early stages, but ultimately Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) became the dominant protocol.
A general election is an election in which all or most members of a given political body are chosen. These are usually held for a nation's primary legislative body, as distinguished from by-elections and local elections.
thumb|right|Here the relation between genotype and phenotype is illustrated, using a [[Punnett square, for the character of petal colour in a pea plant. The letters B and b represent genes for colour and the pictures show the resultant flowers.
Gerard Hengeveld (7 December 1910, Kampen - October 28, 2001, Bergen, North Holland) was a Dutch classical pianist, music composer and educationalist. He is especially known for his compositions of study material for piano.
right|thumb|Graphic symbols are often [[Form follows function|functionalist and anonymous, as these pictographs from the US National Park Service illustrate.]]
A gemstone (also called a gem, fine gem, jewel, precious stone, or semi-precious stone) is a piece of mineral crystal which, in cut and polished form, is used to make jewelry or other adornments.The Oxford Dictionary Online and Webster Online Dictionary However, certain rocks (such as lapis lazuli, opal, and jade) or organic materials that are not minerals (such as amber, jet, and pearl) are also used for jewelry and are therefore often considered to be gemstones as well.
Musée des Beaux-Arts, Rouen
GSM  (Global System for Mobile Communications, originally Groupe Spécial Mobile) is a standard developed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) to describe the protocols for second-generation  digital cellular networks used by mobile devices such as mobile phones, first deployed in Finland in December 1991.Anton A.
border
The flag of Greenland was designed by Greenland native Thue Christiansen. It features two equal horizontal bands of white (top) and red with a large disk slightly to the hoist side of centre.
A gate or gateway is a point of entry to a space which is enclosed by walls. Gates may prevent or control the entry or exit of individuals, or they may be merely decorative.
Greek fire was an incendiary weapon used by the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire that was first developed . The Byzantines typically used it in naval battles to great effect, as it could continue burning while floating on water.
Garbage in, garbage out (GIGO) in the field of computer science or information and communications technology refers to the fact that computers, since they operate by logical processes, will unquestioningly process flawed, even nonsensical, input data (&quot;garbage in&quot;) and produce undesired, often nonsensical, output (&quot;garbage out&quot;). The principle also applies more generally to all analysis and logic, in that arguments are unsound if their premises are flawed.
Gatt or GATT may refer to:
Gipsy or GIPSY may refer to:
G protein–coupled  receptors (GPCRs) which are also known as seven-transmembrane domain receptors, 7TM receptors, heptahelical receptors, serpentine receptor, and G protein–linked receptors (GPLR), constitute a large protein family of receptors, that detect molecules outside the cell and activate internal signal transduction pathways and, ultimately, cellular responses. Coupling with G proteins, they are called seven-transmembrane receptors because they pass through the cell membrane seven times.
GTPases (singular GTPase) are a large family of hydrolase enzymes that can bind and hydrolyze guanosine triphosphate (GTP). The GTP binding and hydrolysis takes place in the highly conserved G domain common to all GTPases.
Aelia Galla Placidia (388 – 27 November 450), daughter of the Roman emperor Theodosius I, was regent to Valentinian III from 423 until his majority in 437, and a major force in Roman politics for most of her life.  She was queen consort to Ataulf, king of the Visigoths from 414 until his death in 415, and briefly empress consort to Constantius III in 421.
G proteins, also known as guanine nucleotide-binding proteins, are a family of proteins that act as molecular switches inside cells, and are involved in transmitting signals from a variety of stimuli outside a cell to its interior.  Their activity is regulated by factors that control their ability to bind to and hydrolyze guanosine triphosphate (GTP) to guanosine diphosphate (GDP).
&quot;United States Social Security Death Index,&quot; index, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.
}} Majesty's pleasure]]
Galvanization (or galvanizing as it is most commonly called in that industry) is the process of applying a protective zinc coating to steel or iron, to prevent rusting. The most common method is hot-dip galvanizing, in which parts are submerged in a bath of molten zinc.
The Golden Rule (can be considered as a law of reciprocity in some religions) is the principle of treating others as one would wish to be treated. It is a maxim of altruism seen in many human religions and human cultures.
George Abbot or Abbott (1604 — 2 February 1649) was an English lay writer, known as &quot;The Puritan&quot;, and a politician who sat in the House of Commons in two periods between 1640 and 1649.He died on &quot;Feb.
thumb|right|300px|The [[Messier 80 globular cluster in the constellation Scorpius is located about 30,000 light-years from the Sun and contains hundreds of thousands of stars.]]
}}
Gilbert Arthur à Beckett (1837 – October 15, 1891) was an English writer.
Glaucus (; , &quot;greyish blue&quot; or &quot;bluish green&quot; and &quot;glimmering&quot;) is a Greek name. In modern Greek usage, the name is usually transliterated Glafkos.
George Gordon, 1st Earl of Aberdeen (3 October 163720 April 1720), was a Lord Chancellor of Scotland.
Gnumatic was incorporated in the year 2000 to work on financial software.  Led by Linas Veptas, Gnumatic produces GnuCash, the personal finance software for Unix.
George Robert Aberigh-Mackay (25 July 184812 January 1881), Anglo-Indian writer, son of a Bengal chaplain, was educated at Magdalen College School, Oxford and Cambridge University. Entering the Indian education department in 1870, he became professor of English literature in Delhi College in 1873, tutor to the Raja of Rutlam in 1876, and principal of the Rajkumar College at Indore in 1877.
The gallon () is a unit of measurement for liquid capacity in both the US customary units and the British imperial systems of measurement. Three significantly different sizes are in current use: the imperial gallon defined as  litres, which is used in the United Kingdom, Canada, and some Caribbean nations; the US gallon defined as , which is used in the US and some Latin American and Caribbean countries; and the least-used US dry gallon defined as .
In economics, the Gini coefficient (sometimes expressed as a Gini ratio or a normalized Gini index) ( ) is a measure of statistical dispersion intended to represent the income or wealth distribution of a nation's residents, and is the most commonly used measure of inequality. It was developed by the Italian statistician and sociologist Corrado Gini and published in his 1912 paper Variability and Mutability ().
Septuagint, extracanonical traditions
Gene therapy is the therapeutic delivery of nucleic acid polymers into a patient's cells as a drug to treat disease.  The first attempt at modifying human DNA was performed in 1980 by Martin Cline, but the first successful nuclear gene transfer in humans, approved by the National Institutes of Health, was performed in May 1989.
Galatea is an ancient Greek name meaning &quot;she who is milk-white&quot;.
The Gulf of Oman or Sea of Oman ( khalīj ʿUmān; ) is a strait (and not an actual gulf) that connects the Arabian Sea with the Strait of Hormuz, which then runs to the Persian Gulf. It borders Pakistan and Iran on the north, Oman on the south, and the United Arab Emirates on the west.
Case is a special grammatical category of a noun, pronoun, adjective, participle or numeral whose value reflects the grammatical function performed by that word in a phrase, clause, or sentence. In some languages, nouns, pronouns, adjectives, determiners, participles, prepositions, numerals, articles and their modifiers take different inflected forms depending on what case they are in.
Nazi GermanyOccupied Europe
In linguistics, conjugation (}}}}) is the creation of derived forms of a verb from its principal parts by inflection (alteration of form according to rules of grammar). Conjugation may be affected by person, number, gender, tense, aspect, mood, voice, and/or other grammatical categories such as possession, definiteness, politeness, causativity, clusivity, interrogativity, transitivity, valency, polarity, telicity,  volition, mirativity, evidentiality, animacy, associativity,http://www.
Gomoku is an abstract strategy board game. Also called Gobang or Five in a Row, it is traditionally played with Go pieces (black and white stones) on a Go board, using 15×15 of the 19×19 grid intersections.
Gegenschein ( German for &quot;countershine&quot;) is a faint brightening of the night sky in the region of the antisolar point.
In typography, a glyph  is an elemental symbol within an agreed set of symbols, intended to represent a readable character  for the purposes of writing. As such, glyphs are considered to be unique marks that collectively add up to the spelling of a word, or otherwise contribute to a specific meaning of what is written, with that meaning dependent on cultural and social usage.
Gothic}}
Global warming potential (GWP) is a relative measure of how much heat a greenhouse gas traps in the atmosphere. It compares the amount of heat trapped by a certain mass of the gas in question to the amount of heat trapped by a similar mass of carbon dioxide.
In category theory, a branch of mathematics, a Grothendieck topology is a structure on a category C which makes the objects of C act like the open sets of a topological space.  A category together with a choice of Grothendieck topology is called a site.
Greens may refer to:
is a Japanese media franchise originally published as a seinen manga series of the same name written and illustrated by Masamune Shirow. The manga, first serialized in 1989 under the subtitle of The Ghost in the Shell, and later published as its own tankōbon volumes by Kodansha, told the story of the fictional counter-cyberterrorist organization Public Security Section 9, led by protagonist Major Motoko Kusanagi, in the mid-21st century of Japan.
The Gauss–Legendre algorithm is an algorithm to compute the digits of π. It is notable for being rapidly convergent, with only 25 iterations producing 45 million correct digits of π.
The Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search (GIMPS) is a collaborative project of volunteers who use freely available software to search for Mersenne prime numbers.
}}
General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) is a packet oriented mobile data service on the 2G and 3G cellular communication system's global system for mobile communications (GSM). GPRS was originally standardized by European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) in response to the earlier CDPD and i-mode packet-switched cellular technologies.
Gnosis is the common Greek noun for knowledge ([gnôsis, f.).
Georgian may refer to:
Georgian architecture is the name given in most English-speaking countries to the set of architectural styles current between 1714 and 1830. It is eponymous for the first four British monarchs of the House of Hanover—George I, George II, George III, and George IV—who reigned in continuous succession from August 1714 to June 1830.
(D)
The Gallipoli peninsula (;}} ; ) is located in the southern part of East Thrace, the European part of Turkey, with the Aegean Sea to the west and the Dardanelles strait to the east.
Gram staining or Gram stain, also called Gram's method, is a method of staining used to differentiate bacterial species into two large groups (gram-positive and gram-negative). The name comes from the Danish bacteriologist Hans Christian Gram, who developed the technique.
Gram-positive bacteria are bacteria that give a positive result in the Gram stain test, which is traditionally used to quickly classify bacteria into two broad categories according to their cell wall.
Gram-negative bacteria are a group of bacteria that do not retain the crystal violet stain used in the Gram staining method of  bacterial differentiation. They are characterized by their cell envelopes, which are composed of a thin peptidoglycan cell wall sandwiched between an inner cytoplasmic cell membrane and a bacterial outer membrane.
The geometric algebra (GA) of a vector space is an algebraic structure, noted for its multiplication operation called the geometric product on a space of elements called multivectors, which is a superset of both the scalars F and the vector space V.  Mathematically, a geometric algebra may be defined as the Clifford algebra of a vector space with a quadratic form, together with the exterior product of the exterior algebra on the same space.
Genetic may refer to:
.}}
Aspect is a grammatical category that expresses how an action, event, or state, denoted by a verb, extends over time.   Perfective aspect is used in referring to an event conceived as bounded and unitary, without reference to any flow of time during (&quot;I helped him&quot;).
,
}}
Giovanni Boccaccio (; ; 1313 – 21 December 1375)Bartlett, Kenneth R. (1992).
Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi (; 9 or 10 October 1813 – 27 January 1901) was an Italian opera composer.
}}
}}
The geologic time scale (GTS) is a system of chronological dating that relates geological strata (stratigraphy) to time, and is used by geologists, paleontologists, and other Earth scientists to describe the timing and relationships of events that have occurred during Earth's history. The tables of geologic time spans, presented here, agree with the nomenclature, dates and standard color codes set forth by the International Commission on Stratigraphy.
Giovanni Arduino is the name of:
The gambler's fallacy, also known as the Monte Carlo fallacy or the fallacy of the maturity of chances, is the mistaken belief that, if something happens more frequently than normal during some period, it will happen less frequently in the future, or that, if something happens less frequently than normal during some period, it will happen more frequently in the future (presumably as a means of balancing nature). In situations where what is being observed is truly random (i.
Gilbert Plains is an unincorporated urban community in the Gilbert Plains Municipality within the Canadian province of Manitoba that held town status prior to January 1, 2015. It is located on Highway 5 and the CN railway line, between Dauphin and Grandview.
thumb|240px|Gasparo Contarini.
Gastroenterology (MeSH heading)nlm.nih.
The Gulag (; acronym of , , &quot;Main Camps' Administration&quot; or &quot;Chief Administration of Corrective Labor Camps&quot;) was the government agency created under Vladimir LeninLenin's Gulag Richard Pipes, academic research journals Vol. 2, pp 140-146, June 2014Gulag: An Introduction by Anne Applebaum which reached its peak as Soviet forced-labor camp system during Joseph Stalin's rule from the 1930s up until the 1950s.
The Geiger counter is an instrument used for measuring ionizing radiation used widely in applications such as radiation dosimetry, radiological protection, experimental physics and the nuclear industry.
The General Synod is the title of the governing body of some church organizations.
In the process of setting electoral districts, gerrymandering is a practice intended to establish a political advantage for a particular party or group by manipulating district boundaries. The resulting district is known as a gerrymander (, recently changed from the original ); however, that word can also refer to the process.
right|thumb|250px|A selection of bottled gins offered at a [[liquor store]]
The Gall–Peters projection is a rectangular map projection that maps all areas such that they have the correct sizes relative to each other. Like any equal-area projection, it achieves this goal by distorting most shapes.
right|thumb|A &quot;go-fast&quot; is the preferred boat of many smugglers.
The City Chambers or Municipal Buildings in Glasgow, Scotland, has functioned as the headquarters of Glasgow City Council since 1996, and of preceding forms of municipal government in the city since 1889, located on the eastern side of the city's George Square. An eminent example of Victorian civic architecture, the building was constructed between 1882 and 1888 to a competition winning design by Scottish architect William Young a native of Paisley.
Gone with the Wind is a novel  by American writer Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936. The story is set in Clayton County and Atlanta, both in Georgia, during the American Civil War and Reconstruction Era.
(about 80 years old)
Grok  is a word coined by American writer Robert A. Heinlein for his 1961 science fiction novel Stranger in a Strange Land.
The Governor of Michigan is the chief executive of the U.S.
Gilbert and Sullivan refers to the Victorian-era theatrical partnership of the librettist W. S.
magic lantern}}
Gallurese (gadduresu) is an Italo-Dalmatian Romance lect spoken in the region of Gallura, in the northeastern part of Sardinia. It is often considered a dialect of southern Corsican, or even a transitional language between Corsican and Sardinian.
The -gry puzzle is a popular word puzzle that asks for the third English word that ends with the letters -gry other than angry and hungry. Specific wording varies substantially, but the puzzle has no clear answer, as there are no other common English words that end in -gry.
This is a list of various types of glue. Historically, the term &quot;glue&quot; only referred to protein colloids prepared from animal flesh.
-driven geysers|Cold-water geyser}}
In linear algebra, Gaussian elimination (also known as row reduction) is an algorithm for solving systems of linear equations. It is usually understood as a sequence of operations performed on the corresponding matrix of coefficients.
Gypsum. Mindat
A growth factor is a naturally occurring substance capable of stimulating cellular growth, proliferation, healing, and cellular differentiation. Usually it is a protein or a steroid hormone.
A gin and tonic is a highball cocktail made with gin and tonic water poured over ice. It is usually garnished with a slice or wedge of lime.
A gimlet is a hand tool for drilling small holes, mainly in wood, without splitting.  It was defined in Joseph Gwilt's Architecture (1859) as &quot;a piece of steel of a semi-cylindrical form, hollow on one side, having a cross handle at one end and a worm or screw at the other&quot;.
In mathematics, the geometric mean is a type of mean or average, which indicates the central tendency or typical value of a set of numbers by using the product of their values (as opposed to the arithmetic mean which uses their sum). The geometric mean is defined as the th root of the product of  numbers, i.
Gent or Gents may refer to:
The Guru Meditation is an error notice displayed by early versions of the Commodore Amiga computer when they crashed. It is analogous to the &quot;Blue Screen of Death&quot; in Microsoft Windows operating systems, or a kernel panic in Unix.
thumb|Georg Philipp Telemann (1681–1767), hand-colored aquatint by Valentin Daniel Preisler, after a lost painting by Louis Michael Schneider, 1750
The Granville rail disaster occurred on Tuesday 18 January 1977 at Granville, a western suburb of Sydney, Australia, when a crowded commuter train derailed, running into the supports of a road bridge that collapsed onto two of the train's passenger carriages. It is the worst rail disaster in Australian history: 84 people died, more than 210 were injured, and 1,300 were affected.
In linguistics, grammatical gender is a specific form of noun-class system in which the division of noun classes forms an agreement system with another aspect of the language, such as adjectives, articles, pronouns, or verbs. This system is used in approximately one quarter of the world's languages.
}}
The Great Victoria Desert, an interim Australian bioregion, is a sparsely populated desert area in Western Australia and South Australia.
)
The Garden of Eden (Hebrew גַּן עֵדֶן, Gan ʿEḏen) or (often) Paradise, is the biblical &quot;garden of God&quot;, described most notably in the Book of Genesis chapters 2 and 3, and also in the Book of Ezekiel. Genesis 13:10 refers to the &quot;garden of God&quot; (not called Eden by name),http://bible.
The glottis is defined as the opening between the vocal folds Ladefoged, Peter. 2006.
*Sindhi language
*electronica
Gayo may refer to:
Granite () is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in texture. Granites can be predominantly white, pink, or gray in color, depending on their mineralogy.
Gotham City ( ), or simply Gotham, is a fictional city appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, best known as the home of Batman. Gotham City was first identified as Batman's place of residence in Batman #4 (Dec.
Charles Henry Goren (March 4, 1901 – April 3, 1991) was an American bridge player and writer who significantly developed and popularized the game. He was the leading American bridge personality in the 1950s and 1960s – or 1940s and 1950s, as &quot;Mr.
Galactus () is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Formerly a mortal man, Galactus is a cosmic entity who originally consumed planets to sustain his life force, and serves a functional role in the upkeep of the primary Marvel continuity.
Genosha is a fictional country appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. It is an island nation that exists in Marvel's main shared universe, known as &quot;Earth 616&quot; in the Marvel Universe and a prominent place in the X-Men chronology.
Glendower may refer to:
emissions compared to five of the IPCC's &quot;SRES&quot; emissions scenarios. The dips are related to global recessions.
A gametophyte is a stage in the life cycle of plants and algae that undergo alternation of generations. It is a haploid multicellular organism that develops from a haploid spore that has one set of chromosomes.
Géza of Hungary}}
*
A game show is a type of radio, television, or stage show in which contestants, television personalities or celebrities, sometimes as part of a team, play a game which involves answering questions or solving puzzles usually for money or prizes. Alternatively, a gameshow can be a demonstrative program about a game (while usually retaining the spirit of an awards ceremony).
}}
In mathematics, generalized means are a family of functions for aggregating sets of numbers, that include as special cases the Pythagorean means (arithmetic, geometric, and harmonic means). The generalized mean is also known as power mean or Hölder mean (named after Otto Hölder).
thumb|Gabbro
Gilgamesh (;A. R.
Gluten (from Latin gluten, &quot;glue&quot;) is a composite of storage proteins termed prolamins and glutelins and stored together with starch in the endosperm (which nourishes the embryonic plant during germination) of various grass-related grains. It is found in wheat, barley, rye, oat, related species and hybrids (such as spelt, khorasan, emmer, einkorn, triticale, kamut, etc.
The Golden Turkey Awards is a 1980 book by film critic Michael Medved and his brother Harry.
Askew)
The Gunpowder Plot of 1605, in earlier centuries often called the Gunpowder Treason Plot or the Jesuit Treason, was a failed assassination attempt against King James I of England and VI of Scotland by a group of provincial English Catholics led by Robert Catesby.
Gelatin or gelatine (from  meaning &quot;stiff&quot;, &quot;frozen&quot;) is a translucent, colorless, brittle (when dry), flavorless food derived from collagen obtained from various animal body parts. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceutical drugs, vitamin capsules, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing.
Gelatin desserts are desserts made with sweetened and flavored gelatin. This kind of dessert is first recorded by Hannah Glasse in her 18th century book The Art of Cookery.
Gneiss () is a common  distributed type of rock formed by high-grade regional metamorphic processes from pre-existing formations that were originally either igneous or sedimentary rocks. It is often foliated (composed of layers of sheet-like planar structures).
Gregory of Nazianzus ( Grēgorios ho Nazianzēnos; c. 329Liturgy of the Hours Volume I, Proper of Saints, January 2.
HTM}}
Hacking may refer to:
In Greek mythology and Roman Mythology, Hector ( Hektōr, ) was a Trojan prince and the greatest fighter for Troy in the Trojan War. As the first-born son of King Priam and Queen Hecuba, who was a descendant of Dardanus and Tros, the founder of Troy,Iliad, XX, 215 ff.
Hera (, ;  Hērā, equivalently  Hērē, in Ionic and Homer) is the goddess of women and marriage in Greek mythology and religion. She is the daughter of the Titans Cronus and Rhea.
The Levant is a geographical term that refers to a large area in Southwest Asia, south of the Taurus Mountains, bounded by the Mediterranean Sea in the west, the Arabian Desert in the south, and Mesopotamia in the east. It stretches 400 miles north to south from the Taurus Mountains to the Sinai desert, and 70 to 100 miles east to west between the sea and the Arabian desert.
The history of Europe covers the peoples inhabiting Europe from prehistory to the present.
Hold come what may is a phrase popularized by logician Willard Van Orman Quine. Beliefs that are &quot;held come what may&quot; are beliefs one is unwilling to give up, regardless of any evidence with which one might be presented.
(plural haiku) is a very short form of Japanese poetry].  It is typically characterised by three qualities:
The concept of Germany as a distinct region in central Europe can be traced to Roman commander Julius Caesar, who referred to the unconquered area east of the Rhine as Germania, thus distinguishing it from Gaul (France), which he had conquered. The victory of the Germanic tribes in the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest (AD 9) prevented annexation by the Roman Empire, although the Roman provinces of Germania Superior and Germania Inferior were established along the Rhine.
Hades (; }} Háidēs) was the ancient Greek chthonic god of the underworld, which eventually took his name..
In the classic era of the cinema of the United States (1930 – 1945) &quot;cycles&quot; or
Health care reform is a general rubric used for discussing major health policy creation or changes—for the most part, governmental policy that affects health care delivery in a given place. Health care reform typically attempts to:
thumb|Henry Mayhew, from London Labour and the London Poor (1861)
Hydrogen is a chemical element with symbol H and atomic number 1. With a standard atomic weight of circa , hydrogen is the lightest element on the periodic table.
Helium is a chemical element with symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert, monatomic gas, the first in the noble gas group in the periodic table.
thumb|upright=1.1|right|[[Ball-and-stick model of the methane molecule, CH4.
The halogens () are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related elements: fluorine (F), chlorine (Cl), bromine (Br), iodine (I), and astatine (At). The artificially created element 117 (tennessine, Ts) may also be a halogen.
A home page or a start page is the initial or main web page of a website or a browser. The initial page of a website is sometimes called main page as well.
}}
In mathematics and computing, hexadecimal (also base , or hex) is a positional numeral system with a radix, or base, of 16. It uses sixteen distinct symbols, most often the symbols 0–9 to represent values zero to nine, and A, B, C, D, E, F (or alternatively a, b, c, d, e, f) to represent values ten to fifteen.
Hex or HEX may refer to:
Adolf Hitler (1889–1945) was the authoritarian Chancellor of Germany from 1933 to 1945.
A histogram is an accurate graphical representation of the distribution of numerical data. It is an estimate of the probability distribution of a continuous variable (quantitative variable) and was first introduced by Karl Pearson.
āina o Hawaii}}}}
A hearse is a large funeral vehicle used to carry a coffin/casket/urn from a church or funeral home to a cemetery.  In the funeral trade, hearses are often called funeral coaches.
Historiography is the study of the methods of historians in developing history as an academic discipline, and by extension is any body of historical work on a particular subject. The historiography of a specific topic covers how historians have studied that topic using particular sources, techniques, and theoretical approaches.
Heiliges Römisches Reich
}}
A hobby is a regular activity that is done for enjoyment, typically during one's leisure time. Hobbies can include collecting themed items and objects, engaging in creative and artistic pursuits, playing sports, or pursuing other amusements.
The history of the Netherlands is the history of seafaring people thriving on a lowland river delta on the North Sea in northwestern Europe. Records begin with the four centuries during which the region formed a militarized border zone of the Roman empire.
Habitus is a system of embodied dispositions, tendencies that organize the ways in which individuals perceive the social world around them and react to it. These dispositions are usually shared by people with similar backgroundLizardo, O.
In historiography, the term historical revisionism identifies the re-interpretation of the historical record. It usually means challenging the orthodox views  held by professional scholars about a historical event, or introducing new evidence, or of restating the motivations and decisions of the participant people.
The history of the petroleum industry in the United States goes back to the early 19th century, although the indigenous peoples, like many ancient societies, have used petroleum seeps since prehistoric times; where found, these seeps signaled the growth of the industry from the earliest discoveries to the more recent.
Hoplites were citizen-soldiers of Ancient Greek city-states who were primarily armed with spears and shields. Hoplite soldiers utilized the phalanx formation in order to be effective in war with fewer soldiers.
The history of Spain dates back to the Early Middle Ages. In 1516, Habsburg Spain unified a number of disparate predecessor kingdoms; its modern form of a constitutional monarchy was introduced in 1813, and the current democratic constitution dates to 1978.
}}
The history of Islam concerns the political, economic, social, and cultural developments of the Islamic civilization. Despite concerns about the reliability of early sources, most historians (non-Muslims) believe that Islam originated in Mecca and Medina at the start of the 7th century.
}}
A hormone (from the Greek participle “”) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by  glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour.  Hormones have diverse chemical structures, mainly of 3 classes: eicosanoids, steroids, and amino acid/protein derivatives (amines, peptides, and proteins).
Hammond Organ Australia Hammond-Suzuki Summary: In 1986, Hammond Super B was released as a revive of B-3 using digitally sampled tonewheel sounds. Then in 1991, this sound generator was utilized on a combo organ; that was Hammond Suzuki XB-2.
Hypoglycemia, also known as low blood sugar, is when blood sugar decreases to below normal levels. This may result in a variety of symptoms including clumsiness, trouble talking, confusion, loss of consciousness, seizures, or death.
Condensed list of historical anniversaries.
thumb|right|upright=1.2|Original map by John Snow showing the [[Cluster (epidemiology)|clusters of cholera cases in the London epidemic of 1854, which is a classical case of using human geography]]
(French) |
The recorded history of Haiti began on 4 December 1492 when the European navigator Christopher Columbus happened upon a large island in the region of the western Atlantic Ocean that later came to be known as the Caribbean. It was inhabited by the Taíno, an Arawakan people, who variously called their island Ayiti, Bohio, or Kiskeya (Quisqueya).
thumb|right|3|Population of Haiti (in thousands) from 1961 to 2003
The Politics of Haiti take place in the framewortk of a unitary semi-presidential republic, where the president is the head of state and the prime minister is the head of government. The politics of the country are considered historically unstable due to various coup d'états, regime changes, military juntas and internal conflicts.
); 157th by per capita (at PPP) ()
Telecommunications in Haiti include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
All of the major transportation systems in Haiti are located near or run through the capital, Port-au-Prince.
(Spanish)
Honduras was already occupied by many indigenous peoples when the Spanish arrived in the 16th century.  The western-central part of Honduras was inhabited by the Lencas, the central north coast by the Tol, the area east and west of Trujillo by the Pech (or Paya), the Maya and Sumo.
Honduras is a country in Central America. Honduras borders the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean.
This article is about the ethnic groups and population of Honduras.
Politics of Honduras takes place in a framework of a multi-party system presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Honduras is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunication in Honduras started in 1876 when the first telegraph was introduced, continued development with the telephone in 1891, radio in 1928, television in 1959, the Internet in the early 1990s, and cellphones in 1996.
thumb|300px|[[Toncontín International Airport, Tegucigalpa.]]
Honduras is a member of the United Nations, the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Central American Parliament (PARLACEN), the Central American Integration System (SICA), and the Central American Security Commission (CASQ). During 1995-96, Honduras, a founding member of the United Nations, for the first time served as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
}}
The geography of Hong Kong primarily consists of three main territories: Hong Kong Island, Kowloon Peninsula, and the New Territories.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Hong Kong, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Hong Kong takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by its quasi-constitutional document, the Hong Kong Basic Law, its own legislature, the Chief Executive as the head of government and of the Special Administrative Region, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
)
Communications in Hong Kong includes a wide-ranging and sophisticated network of radio, television, telephone, Internet, and related online services, reflecting Hong Kong's thriving commerce and international importance.
Hong Kong has a highly developed and sophisticated transport network, encompassing both public and private transport. Based on Hong Kong Government's Travel Characteristics Survey, over 90 per cent of the daily journeys are on public transport, the highest rate in the world.
Hong Kong is a special administrative region of the China, and formerly a British crown colony. As such, it has never had any military force of its own, and defence have always been the responsibilities of the sovereign power.
Under the Basic Law, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is exclusively in charge of its internal affairs and external relations, whilst the Government of the People's Republic of China is responsible for its foreign affairs and defence.Article 151, Hong Kong Basic Law As a separate customs territory, Hong Kong maintains and develops relations with foreign states and regions, and plays an active role in such international organisations as World Trade Organization (WTO) and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in its own right under the name of Hong Kong, China.
With a land area of 93,028 square km, Hungary is a landlocked country in Central Europe. It measures about 250 km from north to south and 524 km from east to west.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Hungary, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Hungary takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic. The Prime Minister is the head of government of a pluriform multi-party system, while the President is the head of state and holds a largely ceremonial position.
Transport in Hungary relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, air and water.
A Batthyány-kormány megalapítja a magyar honvédsereget|url=http://www.rubicon.
Hungary wields considerable influence in Central and Eastern Europe and is a middle power in international affairs.Solomon S (1997) South African Foreign Policy and Middle Power Leadership , ISS The foreign policy of Hungary is based on four basic commitments: to Atlantic co-operation, to European integration, to international development and to international law.
In arts and media:
Hydrology is the scientific study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on Earth and other planets, including the water cycle, water resources and environmental watershed sustainability. A practitioner of hydrology is a hydrologist, working within the fields of earth or environmental science, physical geography, geology or civil and environmental engineering.
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application protocol for distributed, collaborative, and hypermedia information systems. HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web.
Horatio Walpole}}
,
}}
House of Pain is an American hip hop group who released three albums in the 1990s before lead rapper Everlast left to pursue his solo career. The group's name is a reference to the H.
Haakon VII (1872–1957) was King of Norway from 1905 to 1957.
A head of state (or chief of state) is the public persona that officially represents the national unity and legitimacy of a sovereign state. Depending on the country's form of government and separation of powers, the head of state may be a purely ceremonial figurehead with limited or no executive power or concurrently the head of government.
Heredity is the  passing on of traits from parents to their offspring, either through asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction; the offspring cells or organisms acquire the genetic information of their parents. Through heredity, variations between individuals can accumulate and cause species to evolve by natural selection.
The historical period drama is a film genre in which stories are based upon historical events and famous people. Some historical dramas are docudramas, which attempt an accurate portrayal of a historical event or biography, to the degree that the available historical research will allow.
Hypertext is text displayed on a computer display or other electronic devices with references (hyperlinks) to other text that the reader can immediately access, or where text can be revealed progressively at multiple levels of detail (also called StretchText). Hypertext documents are interconnected by hyperlinks, which are typically activated by a mouse click, keypress sequence or by touching the screen.
}}
Hezârfen Ahmed Çelebi was a legendary Ottoman aviator of Constantinople (present day Istanbul), purported in the writings of traveler Evliya Çelebi to have achieved sustained unpowered flight.
Holmium is a chemical element with symbol Ho and atomic number 67. Part of the lanthanide series, holmium is a rare earth element.
Hafnium is a chemical element with symbol Hf and atomic number 72. A lustrous, silvery gray, tetravalent transition metal, hafnium chemically resembles zirconium and is found in many zirconium minerals.
Hedonism is a school of thought that argues that pleasure and happiness are the primary or most important intrinsic goods and the proper aim of human life. A hedonist strives to maximize net pleasure (pleasure minus pain), but when having finally gained that pleasure, either through intrinsic or extrinsic goods, happiness remains stationary.
The Holocene () is the geological epoch that began after the Pleistocene at approximately 11,700 years before present. The Holocene is part of the Quaternary period.
A harbor or harbour (see spelling differences), also called a haven, is a body of water where ships, boats, and barges seek shelter from stormy weather, or are stored for future use. The term harbor, referring primarily to a sheltered body of water, is often used interchangeably with port, which is a man-made facility built for loading and unloading vessels and dropping off and picking up passengers.
High anxiety is a non-technical term referring to a state of extreme fear or apprehension. It may also mean:
H (named aitch or haitch , plural aitches)&quot;H&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;aitch&quot; or &quot;haitch&quot;, op. cit.
HCI may refer to:
thumb|200px|Modern horseshoes are most commonly made of [[steel and nailed into the hoof wall.]]
}}
460 BC
Marrubium vulgare (white horehound or common horehound) is a flowering plant in the mint family (Lamiaceae), native to Europe, northern Africa, and southwestern and central Asia. It is also widely naturalized in many places, including most of North and South America.
Hyperthyroidism is the condition that occurs due to excessive production of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland. Thyrotoxicosis is the condition that occurs due to excessive thyroid hormone of any cause and therefore includes hyperthyroidism.
In computer science, transclusion is the inclusion of part or all of an electronic document into one or more other documents by hypertext reference.  Transclusion is usually performed when the referencing document is displayed, and is normally automatic and transparent to the end user.
Source tracking pertains to the ability of some hypertext systems to rigorously track the exact source of every document or partial document included in the system; that is, they remember who entered the information, when it was entered, when it was updated and by whom, and so on. This allows determining the exact history of every document (and even small parts of documents).
The Huns were a nomadic people who lived in Eastern Europe, the Caucasus, and Central Asia between the 4th century AD and the 7th century AD. According to European tradition, they were first reported living east of the Volga River, in an area that was part of Scythia at the time; the Huns' arrival is associated with the migration westward of a Scythian people, the Alans.
A partial list of Roman place names in Great Britain.
thumb|The popular culture image is of a hacker operating in a darkened room, [to no good|up to no good].
Heart of Darkness (1899) is a novella by Polish-British novelist Joseph Conrad, about a voyage up the Congo River into the Congo Free State, in the heart of Africa, by the story's narrator Marlow.Heart of Darkness Novella by Conrad - Encyclopædia Britannica, accessed 2015-08-02 Marlow tells his story to friends aboard a boat anchored on the River Thames, London, England.
Hinduism is a religion, or a way of life, widely practiced in the Indian subcontinent. Hinduism has been called the oldest religion in the world,)
A help desk is a resource intended to provide the customer or end user with information and support related to a company's or institution's products and services. The purpose of a help desk is usually to troubleshoot problems or provide guidance about products such as computers, electronic equipment, food, apparel, or software.
A hate crime (also known as a bias-motivated crime) is a prejudice-motivated crime, usually violent, which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her membership (or perceived membership) in a certain social group.
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, often shortened to Hamlet (), is a tragedy written by William Shakespeare at an uncertain date between 1599 and 1602. Set in Denmark, the play dramatises the revenge Prince Hamlet is called to wreak upon his uncle, Claudius, by the ghost of Hamlet's father, King Hamlet.
The High German languages or High German dialects () comprise the varieties of German spoken south of the Benrath and Uerdingen isoglosses in central and southern Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, and Luxembourg, as well as in neighboring portions of France (Alsace and northern Lorraine), Italy (South Tyrol), the Czech Republic (Bohemia), and Poland (Upper Silesia). They are also spoken in diaspora in Romania, Russia, the United States, Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Chile, and Namibia.
Habermas is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In algebra, a homomorphism is a structure-preserving map between two algebraic structures of the same type (such as two groups, two rings, or two vector spaces). The word homomorphism comes from the ancient Greek language: [(homos) meaning &quot;same&quot; and μορφή] (morphe) meaning &quot;form&quot; or &quot;shape&quot;.
Histology) is New Latin using the combining forms of [+ -logy], yielding &quot;tissue study&quot;, from the [[Greek language|Greek words , &quot;tissue&quot;, and , &quot;study&quot;.}} is the study of the microscopic anatomy (microanatomy) of cells and tissues of plants and animals.
Henry VII may refer to:
right|thumb|230px|[[Herodotus was a Greek historian who lived in the 5th century BC and one of the earliest historians whose work survives.]]
Harthouse is a German record label specializing in techno music.
thumb|upright=1.35|Bacino del Mediterraneo, dall’Atlante manoscritto del 1582–1584 ca.
HTTPS (also called HTTP over Transport Layer Security (TLS), HTTP over SSL, and HTTP Secure) is a communications protocol for secure communication over a computer network which is widely used on the Internet. HTTPS consists of communication over Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) within a connection encrypted by Transport Layer Security, or its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer.
}}
A house is a building that functions as a home, ranging from simple dwellings such as rudimentary huts  of nomadic tribes and the improvised shacks in shantytowns to complex, fixed structures of wood, brick, concrete or other materials containing plumbing, ventilation and electrical systems.Schoenauer, Norbert (2000).
A Java applet is a small application which is written in Java or another programming language that compiles to Java bytecode and delivered to users in the form of that bytecode. The user launches the Java applet from a web page, and the applet is then executed within a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) in a process separate from the web browser itself.
 
Hebrew is a language native to Israel.
}}
In organic chemistry, a heteroatom (from Ancient Greek heteros, &quot;different&quot;, + atomos, &quot;uncut&quot;) is any atom that is not carbon or hydrogen. Usually, the term is used to indicate that non-carbon atoms have replaced carbon in the backbone of the molecular structure.
Half-life (symbol t1⁄2) is the time required for a quantity to reduce to half its initial value. The term is commonly used in nuclear physics to describe how quickly unstable atoms undergo, or how long stable atoms survive, radioactive decay.
In soil science, humus (coined 1790–1800; from the Latin humus: earth, ground&quot;humus.&quot; Dictionary.
right|thumb|Model of hydrogen bonds (1) between molecules of [[Properties of water|water]]
thumb|250px|The German [[Hyghalmen Roll was made in the late 15th century and illustrates the German practice of repeating themes from the arms in the crest. (See Roll of arms).
}}Shadow of the Serpent Riders
Deathkings of the Dark CitadelMac OSPlayStationSaturnNintendo 64
Mission Pack: Portal of PraevusMacintosh
LinuxAmigaMac OS
Household hardware (or simply, hardware) is equipment that can be touched or held by hand such as nuts, screws, washers, keys, locks, hinges, latches, handles, wire, chains, belts, plumbing supplies, electrical supplies, tools, utensils, cutlery and machine parts.  Household hardware is typically sold in hardware stores.
The  is known to have begun by the end of the last glacial period (in the paleolithic), roughly 10,000 years ago. Prehistoric Scotland entered the Neolithic Era about 4000 BCE, the Bronze Age about 2000 BCE, and the Iron Age around 700 BCE.
High fidelity (often shortened to hi-fi or hifi) reproduction is a term used by home stereo listeners, audiophiles and home audio enthusiasts to refer to high-quality reproduction of sound to distinguish it from the lower quality sound produced by inexpensive audio equipment, or the inferior quality of sound reproduction that can be heard in recordings made until the late 1940s.
In Greek mythology, Hypnos (; , &quot;sleep&quot;). is the personification of sleep; the Roman equivalent is known as Somnus.
In the Christian churches, Holy Orders are ordained ministries such as bishop, priest or deacon. In the Roman Catholic (Latin: sacri ordines), Eastern Catholic, Eastern Orthodox (ιερωσύνη [hierōsynē], ιεράτευμα [hierateuma], Священство [Svyashchenstvo]), Oriental Orthodox, Anglican, Assyrian, Old Catholic, Independent Catholic and some Lutheran churches, holy orders is comprised is the three ministerial orders of bishop, priest and deacon, or the sacrament or rite by which candidates are ordained to those orders.
Homer ( , Hómēros) is the name ascribed by the ancient Greeks to the legendary author of the Iliad and the Odyssey, two epic poems which are the central works of ancient Greek literature. The Iliad is set during the Trojan War, the ten-year siege of the city of Troy by a coalition of Greek states.
The history of computing hardware covers the developments from early simple devices to aid calculation to modern day computers. Before the 20th century, most calculations were done by humans.
In topology and related branches of mathematics, a Hausdorff space, separated space or T2 space is a topological space in which distinct points have disjoint neighbourhoods. Of the many separation axioms that can be imposed on a topological space, the &quot;Hausdorff condition&quot; (T2) is the most frequently used and discussed.
* hard rock
David Hilbert (1862–1943) was a German mathematician.
thumb|300px|Huginn and Muninn sit on [[Odin's shoulders in an illustration from an 18th-century Icelandic manuscript]]
In thermodynamics, a heat engine is a system that converts heat or thermal energy—and chemical energy—to mechanical energy, which can then be used to do mechanical work.Fundamentals of Classical Thermodynamics, 3rd ed.
In Norse mythology, Heimdallr is a god who possesses the resounding horn Gjallarhorn, owns the golden-maned horse Gulltoppr, has gold teeth, and is the son of Nine Mothers. Heimdallr is attested as possessing foreknowledge, keen eyesight and hearing, is described as &quot;the whitest of the gods&quot; and keeps watch for the onset of Ragnarök while drinking fine mead in his dwelling Himinbjörg, located where the burning rainbow bridge Bifröst meets heaven.
thumb|right|240px|A continuous deformation between a coffee [[mug and a donut (torus) illustrating that they are homeomorphic. But there need not be a continuous deformation for two spaces to be homeomorphic — only a continuous mapping with a continuous inverse function.
In Norse mythology, Hvergelmir (Old Norse &quot;bubbling boiling spring&quot;Orchard (1997:93)) is a major spring. Hvergelmir is attested in the Poetic Edda, compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the Prose Edda, written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson.
In mathematics, the Hausdorff maximal principle is an alternate and earlier formulation of Zorn's lemma proved by Felix Hausdorff in 1914 (Moore 1982:168). It states that in any partially ordered set, every totally ordered subset is contained in a maximal totally ordered subset.
thumb|Hel (1889) by [[Johannes Gehrts, pictured here with her hound Garmr.]]
Henry Ainsworth (1571–1622) was an English Nonconformist clergyman and scholar.
Hindu () refers to any person who regards themselves as culturally, ethnically, or religiously adhering to aspects of Hinduism.Jeffery D.
Hernando de Alarcón (born  1500) was a Spanish explorer and navigator of the 16th century, noted for having led an early expedition to the Baja California Peninsula, during which he became one of the first Europeans to ascend the Colorado River from its mouth and perhaps the first to reach Alta California.
Hunan cuisine, also known as Xiang cuisine, consists of the cuisines of the Xiang River region, Dongting Lake and western Hunan Province in China. It is one of the Eight Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine and is well known for its hot and spicy flavours,http://www.
In economics, hyperinflation occurs when a country experiences very high and usually accelerating rates of  inflation, rapidly eroding the real value of the local currency, and causing the population to minimize their holdings of local money. The population normally switches to holding relatively stable foreign currencies.
&quot;The Hound of Heaven&quot; is a 182-line poem written by English poet Francis Thompson (1859–1907). The poem became famous and was the source of much of Thompson's posthumous reputation.
The history of the Internet begins with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s. Initial concepts of wide area networking originated in several computer science laboratories in the United States, United Kingdom, and France.
Quintus Horatius Flaccus (December 8, 65 BC – November 27, 8 BC), known in the English-speaking world as Horace ( or ), was the leading Roman lyric poet during the time of Augustus (also known as Octavian). The rhetorician Quintilian regarded his Odes as just about the only Latin lyrics worth reading: &quot;He can be lofty sometimes, yet he is also full of charm and grace, versatile in his figures, and felicitously daring in his choice of words.
On November 10, 1983, Microsoft announced Windows, a graphical user interface (GUI) for MS-DOS and a competitor to the Macintosh operating system. The product line eventually changed from a mere GUI for DOS into a fully complete, modern operating system over two lines of development, each with their own separate codebase.
City of Helsinki
Hesiod ( or ;&quot;Hesiod&quot; on Dictionary.com Unabridged.
The system of Hebrew numerals is a quasi-decimal alphabetic numeral system using the letters of the Hebrew alphabet.
Hydroxy can refer to:
A hero (masculine) or heroine (feminine) is a person or main character of a literary work who, in the face of danger, combats adversity through impressive feats of ingenuity, bravery or strength, often sacrificing their own personal concerns for a greater good.
A hogshead (abbreviated &quot;Hhd&quot;, plural &quot;Hhds&quot;) is a large cask of liquid (or, less often, of a food commodity).  More specifically, it refers to a specified volume, measured in either imperial or US customary measures, primarily applied to alcoholic beverages, such as wine, ale, or cider.
Huallaga may refer to:
TOPIX Core 30 Component
Handball (also known as team handball or Olympic handball) is a team sport in which two teams of seven players each (six outfield players and a goalkeeper) pass a ball using their hands with the aim of throwing it into the goal of the other team. A standard match consists of two periods of 30 minutes, and the team that scores more goals wins.
In mathematics, specifically commutative algebra, Hilbert's basis theorem says that a polynomial ring over a Noetherian ring is Noetherian.
Ring structure}}
A humorist is a person who writes or performs humorous material.
400px|right|thumb|Average time until incapacitation decreases rapidly with pressure wave magnitude as magnitudes approach . See: Links between traumatic brain injury and ballistic pressure waves originating in the thoracic cavity and extremities.
A hadith ( or ;  , plural: ahadith, , ) is one of various reports describing the words, actions, or habits of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The term comes from the Arabic language and means a &quot;report&quot;, &quot;account&quot; or &quot;narrative&quot;.
The hull is the watertight body of a ship or boat. Above the hull is the superstructure and/or deckhouse, where present.
A hymn is a type of song, usually religious, specifically written for the purpose of adoration or prayer, and typically addressed to a deity or deities, or to a prominent figure or personification. The word hymn derives from Greek  (hymnos), which means &quot;a song of praise&quot;.
Physics (from the Ancient Greek φύσις physis meaning &quot;nature&quot;) is the fundamental branch of science that developed out of the study of nature and philosophy known, until around the end of the 19th century, as &quot;natural philosophy&quot;. Today, physics is ultimately defined as the study of matter, energy and the relationships between them.
A hydrofoil is a lifting surface, or foil, that operates in water. They are similar in appearance and purpose to aerofoils used by aeroplanes.
Henri Chopin (18 June 1922 – 3 January 2008) was an avant-garde poet and musician.
Hassium is a chemical element with symbol Hs and atomic number 108. It is named after the German state of Hesse.
, genitive
by Peter Paul Rubens
The history of Poland originates in the migrations of Slavs who established permanent settlements in the Polish lands during the Early Middle Ages. The first ruling dynasty, the Piasts, emerged by the 10th century AD.
thumb|Hradčany from the Petřín Tower
The head is the part of an animal that usually includes the brain, eyes, ears, nose, and mouth.
The Hebrew or Jewish calendar (, Ha-Luah ha-Ivri) is a lunisolar calendar used today predominantly for Jewish religious observances. It determines the dates for Jewish holidays and the appropriate public reading of Torah portions, yahrzeits (dates to commemorate the death of a relative), and daily Psalm readings, among many ceremonial uses.
The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering is a 2000 book by Norman G. Finkelstein, in which Finkelstein argues that the American Jewish establishment exploits the memory of the Nazi Holocaust for political and financial gain, as well as to further the interests of Israel.
The Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn (; or, more commonly, The Golden Dawn (Aurora Aurea)) was an organization devoted to the study and practice of the occult, metaphysics, and paranormal activities during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Known as a magical order, the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn was active in Great Britain and focused its practices on theurgy and spiritual development.
A hash function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to data of fixed size. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, digests, or simply hashes.
(1993)
Heraclitus of Ephesus (; , ; c. 535 – c.
Halon may refer to:
Harrisonburg may refer to a place in the United States:
A hammer is a tool or device that delivers a blow (a sudden impact) to an object. Most hammers are hand tools used to drive nails, fit parts, forge metal, and break apart objects.
The Hohenstaufen, also called the Staufer or Staufen, were a dynasty of German kings (1138–1254) during the Middle Ages. Besides Germany, they also ruled the Kingdom of Sicily (1194–1268).
Malaysia is a Southeast Asian country located on strategic sea-lane that exposes it to global trade and foreign culture. Hinduism from India and Buddhism from China dominated early regional history, reaching their peak during the reign of the Sumatra-based Srivijaya civilisation, whose influence extended through Sumatra, Java, the Malay Peninsula and much of Borneo from the 7th to the 13th centuries.
Modern Israel is roughly located on the site of the ancient kingdoms of Israel and Judah. The area (also known as Land of Israel and as Palestine) is the birthplace of the Jewish people, Jewish culture and of the Abrahamic religions, and contains sites sacred to Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Samaritanism, Druze and the Bahá'í Faith.
}}
Heaven, the heavens, seven heavens, pure lands, Tian, Jannah, Valhalla, or The Summerland, is a common religious, cosmological, or transcendent place where beings such as gods, angels, jinn, saints, or venerated ancestors are said to originate, be enthroned, or live. According to the beliefs of some religions, heavenly beings can descend to earth or incarnate, and earthly beings can ascend to Heaven in the afterlife, or in exceptional cases enter Heaven alive.
The History of Libya includes the history of its rich mix of ethnic groups added to the indigenous Berber tribes. Berbers have been present throughout the entire history of the country.
The written history of Afghanistan, (   can be traced back to around 500 BCE when the area was under the Achaemenid Empire, although evidence indicates that an advanced degree of urbanized culture has existed in the land since between 3000 and 2000 BCE. The Indus Valley Civilisation stretched up to large parts of Afghanistan in the north, with several sites being known.
The history of modern Greece covers the history of Greece from the recognition of its autonomy from the Ottoman Empire by the Great Powers (Great Britain, France, and Russia) in 1828, after the Greek War of Independence, to the present day.
Heracles ( ; , Hēraklēs, from Hēra, &quot;Hera&quot;), born Alcaeus (, Alkaios) or AlcidesBibliotheca ii. 4.
In particle physics, a hadron  (, hadrós, &quot;stout, thick&quot;) is a composite particle made of quarks held together by the strong force in a similar way as molecules are held together by the electromagnetic force.
}}
A hub is the central part of a wheel that connects the axle to the wheel itself. Many expressions use the term for a literal or figurative central structure connecting to a periphery.
Hearts is an &quot;evasion-type&quot; trick-taking playing card game for four players, although variations can accommodate 3–6 players. The game is also known as Black Lady, Black Maria, Black Widow, and Slippery Bitch, though any of these may refer to the similar but differently-scored game Black Lady.
Human rights are moral principles or normsJames Nickel, with assistance from Thomas Pogge, M.B.
Hash tree}}
A &quot;Hello, World!&quot; program is a computer program that outputs or displays &quot;Hello, World!
Heavy metal may refer to:
Hebrew grammar is the grammar of the Hebrew language.
Modern Hebrew is phonetically simpler than Biblical Hebrew and has fewer phonemes, but it is phonologically more complex. It has 25 to 27 consonants and 8 to 10 vowels, depending on the speaker and the analysis.
The House of Hohenzollern  is a dynasty of former princes, electors, kings and emperors of Hohenzollern, Brandenburg, Prussia, the German Empire, and Romania. The family arose in the area around the town of Hechingen in Swabia during the 11th century and took their name from Hohenzollern Castle.
Deltaplane is an air sport or recreational activity in which a pilot flies a light, non-motorized foot-launched heavier-than-air aircraft called a hang glider. Most modern hang gliders are made of an aluminium alloy or composite frame covered with synthetic sailcloth to form a wing.
A hole is a hollow place, an opening in/through a solid body, or an excavation in the ground.
The first written records for the history of France appear in the Iron Age. What is now France made up the bulk of the region known to the Romans as Gaul.
prayer, fasting, and vigil
In mathematics, the Hahn–Banach theorem is a central tool in functional analysis. It allows the extension of bounded linear functionals defined on a subspace of some vector space to the whole space, and it also shows that there are &quot;enough&quot; continuous linear functionals defined on every normed vector space to make the study of the dual space &quot;interesting&quot;.
Hampshire (, ; abbreviated Hants){{
Hard science fiction is a category of science fiction characterized by an emphasis on scientific accuracy. The term was first used in print in 1957 by P.
Handloading or reloading is the process of loading firearm cartridges or shotgun shells by assembling the individual components (case/hull, primer, powder, and bullet/shot), rather than purchasing completely assembled, factory-loaded ammunition.  The term handloading is the more general term, as it refers to assembly of ammunition using components from any source.
“Heart of Oak” is the official march of the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom. It is also the official march of several Commonwealth navies including the Royal Canadian Navy and the Royal New Zealand Navy.
}}
thumb|300px|Map of the Roman province [[Maxima Sequanorum (c. 300 AD), which comprised the territories of the Helvetii, Sequani and several smaller tribes.
Heretics of Dune is a 1984 science fiction novel by Frank Herbert, the fifth in his Dune series of six novels. It was ranked as the #13 hardcover fiction best seller of 1984 by The New York Times.
Halakha (;&quot;Halacha&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
The Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah were related Iron Age kingdoms of the ancient Levant. The Kingdom of Israel emerged as an important local power by the 10th century BCE before falling to the Neo-Assyrian Empire in 722 BCE.
Homology may refer to:
US$ 11.64 billion (2012)[J.
thumb|Huffman tree generated from the exact frequencies of the text &quot;this is an example of a huffman tree&quot;. The frequencies and codes of each character are below.
High-density lipoproteins (HDL), density relative to extracellular water, are one of the five major groups of lipoproteins. Lipoproteins are complex particles composed of multiple proteins which transport all fat molecules (lipids) around the body within the water outside cells.
aheo No O Honolulu (The Pride of Honolulu)
The Percolozoa are a group of colourless, non-photosynthetic excavates, including many that can transform between amoeboid, flagellate, and cyst stages.
The history of India includes the prehistoric settlements and societies in the Indian subcontinent; the advancement of civilisation from the Indus Valley Civilisation to the eventual blending of the Indo-Aryan culture to form the Vedic Civilisation; the rise of Hinduism, Jainism and Buddhism;AL Basham (1951), History and Doctrines of the Ajivikas – a Vanished Indian Religion, Motilal Banarsidass, , pages 94–103Sanderson, Alexis (2009), &quot;The Śaiva Age: The Rise and Dominance of Śaivism during the Early Medieval Period.&quot; In: Genesis and Development of Tantrism, edited by Shingo Einoo, Tokyo: Institute of Oriental Culture, University of Tokyo, 2009.
Highlander is a film and television franchise that began with a 1986 fantasy movie starring Christopher Lambert, who played Connor MacLeod, the Highlander. Born in Glenfinnan, in the Scottish Highlands in the 16th century, MacLeod is one of a number of Immortals.
Three ships of the Royal Navy have been named HMS Hood after several members of the Hood family, who were notable Navy officers:
In classical mechanics, a harmonic oscillator is a system that, when displaced from its equilibrium position, experiences a restoring force, F, proportional to the displacement, x:
Heather}}
The Federation of Expellees or Bund der Vertriebenen (BdV) is a non-profit organization formed in West Germany on 27 October 1957 to represent the interests of German nationals of all ethnicities and foreign ethnic Germans (usually naturalised as German nationals after 1949) who either fled their homes in parts of Central and Eastern Europe, or were forcibly expelled following World War II, and their families.
The history of Albania forms a part of the history of Europe. During the classical times, Albania was home to several Illyrian tribes such as the Ardiaei, Albanoi, Amantini, Enchele, Taulantii and many others, but also Thracian and Greek tribes, as well as several Greek colonies established on the Illyrian coast.
Handfasting may be:
right|222px|noframe
The Hollow Earth is a pseudoscience concept proposing that the planet Earth either is entirely hollow or otherwise contains a substantial interior space. The scientific community has dismissed the notion since at least the late 18th century.
}}
A homeland ( country of origin and native land) is the concept of the place (cultural geography) with which an ethnic group holds a long history and a deep cultural association – the country in which a particular national identity began. As a common noun, homeland, it simply connotes the country of one's origin.
Early Miocene-recent
Hyaena is a genus comprising two of the living species of hyenas: the striped hyena (Hyaena hyaena) from western Asia and northern Africa and the brown hyena (Hyaena brunnea) from southern Africa. The brown hyena has sometimes been placed in a separate genus Parahyaena, or even included in the otherwise fossil genus Pachycrocuta, but recent sources have tended to place it in Hyaena.
thumb|Overview of experiment and observations|357x357px
The history of religion refers to the written record of human religious experiences and ideas. This period of religious history begins with the invention of writing about 5,200 years ago (3200 BCE).
}}
HMS Beagle was a Cherokee-class 10-gun brig-sloop of the Royal Navy, one of more than 100 ships of this class. The vessel, constructed at a cost of  £7,803 (£}} in today's currency), was launched on 11 May 1820 from the Woolwich Dockyard on the River Thames.
}}
Head end may refer to:
thumb|320px|Hitachi 63C09E, a 3MHz external clock version of the 6309
Hominy is a food produced from dried maize (corn in the U.S.
Heraclius (, ' c. 575 – February 11, 641) was the Emperor of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire from 610 to 641.
(King Henry).
}}
In the Hebrew Bible, Hosea ( or ; ; Greek , Ōsēe), son of Beeri, was an 8th-century BC prophet in Israel who authored the book of prophecies bearing his name. He is one of the Twelve Prophets of the Jewish Hebrew Bible, also known as the Minor Prophets of the Christian Old Testament.
Habakkuk ( or ; ; also spelled Habacuc) was a prophet in the Hebrew Bible. He is the author of the Book of Habakkuk, the eighth of the collected twelve minor prophets.
Haggai Alternatively, . (, Ḥaggay or Hag-i, Koine Greek: Ἀγγαῖος; ) was a Hebrew prophet during the building of the Second Temple in Jerusalem, and one of the twelve minor prophets in the Hebrew Bible and the author of the Book of Haggai.
The history of painting reaches back in time to artifacts from pre-historic humans, and spans all cultures. It represents a continuous, though periodically disrupted, tradition from Antiquity.
}}
The Hopwood Awards are a major scholarship program at the University of Michigan, founded by Avery Hopwood.
Homeostasis is the property of a system within an animal in which a variable, such as the concentration of a substance in solution, is actively regulated to remain very nearly constant. Examples of homeostasis include the regulation of body temperature, the pH of extracellular fluid, or the concentrations of sodium, potassium and calcium ions, as well as that of glucose in the blood plasma, despite changes in the environment, diet, or level of activity.
Hockey is a sport in which two teams play against each other by trying to maneuver a ball or a puck into the opponent's goal using a hockey stick. There are many types of hockey such as bandy, field hockey and ice hockey.
Howick}}
A honeymoon is the traditional holiday taken by newlyweds to celebrate their marriage in intimacy and seclusion. Today, honeymoons are often celebrated in destinations considered [or romantic].
Hotspot or Hot spot may refer to:
thumb|right|240px|Example of a [[Complete binary tree|complete binary max-heap with node keys being integers from 1 to 100]]
Subordination}}
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to health sciences:
An hour (symbol: h;. also abbreviated hr.
Hezekiah (, Hebrew: ; ; ; ; also transliterated as Ḥizkiyyahu or Ḥizkiyyah) was, according to the Hebrew Bible, the son of Ahaz and the 13th king of Judah.Harris, Stephen L.
Hickory is a type of tree (Carya species) found in North America and East Asia.
A hemicellulose (also known as polyose) is any of several heteropolymers (matrix polysaccharides), such as arabinoxylans, present along with cellulose in almost all plant cell walls.Scheller HV, Ulvskov P.
Hillbilly is a term (often derogatory) for people who dwell in rural, mountainous areas in the United States, primarily in Appalachia and the Ozarks. Due to its strongly stereotypical connotations, the term can be offensive to those Americans of Appalachian or Ozark heritage.
Host (masculine) and hostess (feminine) most often refer to a person responsible for guests at an event or providing hospitality during it, or to an event's presenter or master or mistress of ceremonies. Host or hosts may also refer to:
Hernán Cortés de Monroy y Pizarro Altamirano, Marquis of the Valley of Oaxaca (; 1485 – December 2, 1547) was a Spanish Conquistador who led an expedition that caused the fall of the Aztec Empire and brought large portions of mainland Mexico under the rule of the King of Castile in the early 16th century. Cortés was part of the generation of Spanish colonizers who began the first phase of the Spanish colonization of the Americas.
Her story}}
Horsepower (hp) is a unit of measurement of power (the rate at which work is done). There are many different standards and types of horsepower.
London (the capital city of England and the United Kingdom) has a history going back over 2,000 years. In that time, it has grown to one of the most significant financial and cultural capitals on Earth.
Astronomy is the oldest of the natural sciences, dating back to antiquity, with its origins in the religious, mythological, cosmological, calendrical, and astrological beliefs and practices of prehistory: vestiges of these are still found in astrology, a discipline long interwoven with public and governmental astronomy, and not completely disentangled from it until a few centuries ago in the Western World (see astrology and astronomy). In some cultures, astronomical data was used for astrological prognostication.
The Haber process, also called the Haber–Bosch process, is an artificial nitrogen fixation process and is the main industrial procedure for the production of ammonia today. It is named after its inventors, the German chemists Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch, who developed it in the first half of the 20th century.
}}
H.263 is a video compression standard originally designed as a low-bit-rate compressed format for videoconferencing.
House of Orange may refer to:
thumb|300px|Schematic representation of the assembly of the core histones into the nucleosome.
A hierarchical organization is an organizational structure where every entity in the organization, except one, is subordinate to a single other entity. This arrangement is a form of a hierarchy.
Hīnayāna  is a Sanskrit term literally meaning the &quot;smaller vehicle&quot;,Kalu Rinpoche (1995) Profound Buddhism From Hinayana To Vajrayana: p. 15 applied to the Śrāvakayāna, the Buddhist path followed by a śrāvaka who wishes to become an arhat.
History painting is a genre in painting defined by its subject matter rather than artistic style. History paintings usually depict a moment in a narrative story, rather than a specific and static subject, as in a portrait.
In mathematics, a hyperbola (plural hyperbolas or hyperbolae) is a type of smooth curve lying in a plane, defined by its geometric properties or by equations for which it is the solution set.  A hyperbola has two pieces, called connected components or branches, that are mirror images of each other and resemble two infinite bows.
thumb|right|350px|Illustration of electors in deliberation (left to right: Archbishop of Cologne, Archbishop of Mainz, Archbishop of Trier, Count Palatine of the Rhine, Duke of Saxony, Margrave of Brandenburg and King of Bohemia).
Hugh Binning (1627–1653) was a Scottish philosopher and theologian.  Binning was born in Scotland during the reign of Charles I, ordained in the (Presbyterian) Church of Scotland and died during the time of Oliver Cromwell and the Commonwealth of England.
thumb|200px|Henry Home, Lord Kames; [[Hugo Arnot; James Burnett, Lord Monboddo, by John Kay.]]
thumb|Fun on the ice
Hans Baldung Grien or Grün ( September 1545) was a German artist in painting and printmaking who was considered the most gifted student of Albrecht Dürer. Throughout his lifetime, Baldung developed a distinctive style, full of color, expression and imagination.
The hammered dulcimer is a percussion instrument and stringed instrument with the strings typically stretched over a trapezoidal sounding board. The hammered dulcimer is set before the musician, who may sit cross legged on the floor or on a stool at a wooden stand on legs.
Humanae vitae (Latin: Of Human Life) is an encyclical written by Pope Paul VI and dated 25 July 1968. The text was issued at a Vatican press conference on 29 July.
thumb|250px|The [[English Wikipedia|English edition of Wikipedia has grown to  articles, equivalent to over 2,500 print volumes of the Encyclopædia Britannica. Including all language editions, Wikipedia has over 45 million articles, equivalent to [as books|over 19,000 print volumes].
Hydropower or water power (from  , &quot;water&quot;) is power derived from the energy of falling water or fast running water, which may be harnessed for useful purposes. Since ancient times, hydropower from many kinds of watermills has been used as a renewable energy source for irrigation and the operation of various mechanical devices, such as gristmills, sawmills, textile mills, trip hammers, dock cranes, domestic lifts, and ore mills.
A horse breed is a selectively bred population of domesticated horses, often with pedigrees recorded in a breed registry.  However, the term is sometimes used in a very broad sense to define landrace animals, or naturally selected horses of a common phenotype located within a limited geographic region.
Halfbakery is a community-based ideas bank used by people who wish to propose and develop (not always serious) half-baked inventions. It has distinguished itself by minimalism, irreverence, and a cast of regulars whose takes on suggested inventions are often funnier than the original submission.
Horse breeding is reproduction in horses, and particularly the human-directed process of selective breeding of animals, particularly purebred horses of a given breed. Planned matings can be used to produce specifically desired characteristics in domesticated horses.
Heterosexuality is romantic attraction, sexual attraction or sexual behavior between persons of the opposite sex or gender. As a sexual orientation, heterosexuality is &quot;an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic, and/or sexual attractions&quot; to persons of the opposite sex; it &quot;also refers to a person's sense of identity based on those attractions, related behaviors, and membership in a community of others who share those attractions.
The United States Navy, United States Coast Guard, and United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) use a hull classification symbol (sometimes called hull code or hull number) to identify their ships by type and by individual ship within a type.  The system is analogous to the pennant number system that the Royal Navy and other European and Commonwealth navies use.
Habeas corpus (; Medieval Latin meaning literally &quot;that you have the body&quot;) is a recourse in law through which a person can report an unlawful detention or imprisonment to a court and request that the court order the custodian of the person, usually a prison official, to bring the prisoner to court, to determine if the detention is lawful.
Human cloning is the creation of a genetically identical copy of a human. The term is generally used to refer to artificial human cloning, which is the reproduction of human cells and tissue.
The history of Asia can be seen as the collective history of several distinct peripheral coastal regions such as, East Asia, South Asia, and the Middle East linked by the interior mass of the Eurasian steppe.
The prehistory of the Americas (North, South, and Central America, and the Caribbean) begins with people migrating to these areas from Asia during the height of an Ice Age. These groups are generally believed to have been isolated from peoples of the &quot;Old World&quot; until the coming of Europeans in the 10th century from Norway and with the voyages of Christopher Columbus in 1492.
The history of Africa begins with the emergence of Homo sapiens in East Africa, and continues into the present as a patchwork of diverse and politically developing nation states. The recorded history of early civilization arose in the Kingdom of Kush, and later in Ancient Egypt, the Sahel, the Maghreb and the Horn of Africa.
The History of Oceania includes the history of Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and other Pacific island nations.
Harvard University is a university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
This is a list of historical African place names. The names on the left are linked to the corresponding subregion(s) from History of Africa.
Horror is a genre of fiction which is intended to, or has the capacity to frighten, scare, disgust, or startle its readers or viewers by inducing feelings of horror and terror. Literary historian J.
right|thumb|A rectangular grid (top) and its image under a [[Conformal map f (bottom).]]
Much of the history of Algeria has taken place
Following the Lancaster House Agreement of 1979 there was a transition to internationally recognised majority rule in 1980; the United Kingdom ceremonially granted Zimbabwe independence on 18 April that year. In the 2000s Zimbabwe's economy began to deteriorate due to various factors, including mismanagement and corruption, the imposition of sanctions, such as among others the Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act of 2001, following the switch from Willing Buyer, Willing Seller to Fast Track land reform.
The History of Russia begins with that of the Eastern Slavs. The traditional beginning of Russian history is 862 A.
The history of Christianity concerns the Christian religion, Christendom, and the Church with its various denominations, from the 1st century to the present.
The hertz (symbol: Hz) is the derived unit of frequency in the International System of Units (SI) and is defined as one cycle per second.&quot;hertz&quot;.
A heroic couplet is a traditional form for English poetry, commonly used in  epic and narrative poetry, and consisting of a rhyming pair of lines in iambic pentameter.  Use of the heroic couplet was pioneered by Geoffrey Chaucer in the Legend of Good Women and the Canterbury Tales,Hobsbaum, Philip.
right|frame|[[Loki tricks Höðr into shooting Baldr.]]
Hedeby (, Old Norse Heiðabýr, German Haithabu) was an important Viking Age (8th to the 11th centuries) trading settlement near the southern end of the Jutland Peninsula, now in the Schleswig-Flensburg district of Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is  the most important archaeological site in Schleswig-Holstein.
Hawala or Hewala (, meaning transfer or sometimes trust), also known as hundi or - in Somali, xawala or xawilaad - is a popular and informal value transfer system based on the performance and honour of a huge network of money brokers, primarily located in the Middle East, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and the Indian subcontinent, operating outside of, or parallel to, traditional banking, financial channels, and remittance systems. Dubai has been prominent for decades as a welcoming hub for hawala transactions worldwide.
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture, the method of growing plants without soil, using mineral nutrient solutions in a water solvent.Santos, J.
Humanist may refer to:
In chemistry, hydrophobicity is the physical property of a molecule (known as a hydrophobe) that is seemingly repelled from a mass of water.Aryeh Ben-Na'im Hydrophobic Interaction Plenum Press, New York,  (Strictly speaking, there is no repulsive force involved; it is an absence of attraction.
S&amp;P 500 Component
Harmonic analysis is a branch of mathematics concerned with the representation of functions or signals as the superposition of basic waves, and the study of and generalization of the notions of Fourier series and Fourier transforms (i.e.
right|thumb|[[Barry Bonds holds the all-time home run record in Major League Baseball]]thumb|right|200px|[[Sadaharu Oh, pictured here in 2006, holds the officially verified all-time world home run record in professional baseball.]]
The hendecasyllable is a line of eleven syllables, used in Ancient Greek and Latin quantitative verse as well as in medieval and modern European poetry.
The Hebrides (; Scottish Gaelic: Innse Gall (); Old Norse: Suðreyjar) comprise a widespread and diverse archipelago off the west coast of mainland Scotland. There are two main groups: the Inner and Outer Hebrides.
Several ships and one submarine of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS Dreadnought in the expectation that they would &quot;dread nought&quot;, i.e.
Hexameter is a metrical line of verses consisting of six feet. It was the standard epic metre in classical Greek and Latin literature, such as in the Iliad, Odyssey and Aeneid.
This is a timeline of Polish history, comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Poland and its predecessor states.  To read about the background to these events, see History of Poland.
Himalia may refer to:
right|thumb|Hercules with his son [[Telephus, one of the Heracleidae]]
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a lentivirus (a subgroup of retrovirus) that causes HIV infection and over time acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS is a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive.
Hol or HOL may refer to:
}}
(lit. &quot;pervert&quot;) is a word of Japanese origin which is short for ; a perverse sexual desire.
}}
Helene may refer to:
Hyperion may refer to:
The history of medicine, as practiced by trained professionals, shows how societies have changed in their approach to illness and disease from ancient times to the present.
The Hamoaze (; ) is an estuarine stretch of the tidal River Tamar, between its confluence with the River Lynher and Plymouth Sound, England.
A handheld game console is a small, portable self-contained video game console with a built-in screen, game controls, and speakers.D 4.
Heinrich Abeken (August 19, 1809August 8, 1872) was a German theologian and Prussian Privy Legation Councillor in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Berlin.
Harpers Ferry is the name of several places in the United States of America:
Halophiles are organisms that thrive in high salt concentrations.  They are a type of extremophile organisms.
The Holocene extinction, otherwise referred to as the sixth extinction or Anthropocene extinction, is the ongoing extinction event of species during the present Holocene epoch, mainly due to human activity. The large number of extinctions spans numerous families of plants and animals, including mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and arthropods.
Hollywood style}}
Tack is a piece of equipment or accessory equipped on horses in the course of their use as domesticated animals. Saddles, stirrups, bridles, halters, reins, bits, harnesses, martingales, and breastplates are all forms of horse tack.
The area of study known as the history of mathematics is primarily an investigation into the origin of discoveries in mathematics and, to a lesser extent, an investigation into the mathematical methods and notation of the past.
HSK may refer to:
Elagabalus , also known as Heliogabalus (;  203 – March 11, 222), was Roman emperor from 218 to 222. A member of the Severan dynasty, he was Syrian, the second son of Julia Soaemias and Sextus Varius Marcellus.
A hair pin or hairpin is a long device used to hold a person's hair in place. It may be used simply to secure long hair out of the way for convenience or as part of an elaborate hairstyle or coiffure.
Hate speech is speech which attacks a person or group on the basis of attributes such as race, religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability, or gender.Definitions for &quot;hate speech&quot;, Dictionary.
Ōlelo Hawaii}}
Kingdom of Poland
Hedwig is a feminine German  given name, see Hedwig (name). Hedwig may also refer to:
thumb|200px|Resolution in a gale by [[Willem van de Velde, the younger depicts the second Resolution c. 1678]]
Haddocks' Eyes is a term for the name of a poem by Lewis Carroll from Through the Looking-Glass. It is sung by The White Knight in [the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There/Chapter VIII|chapter eight] to a tune that he claims as his own invention, but which Alice recognises as &quot;I give thee all, I can no more&quot;.
Hoosier  is the official demonym for a resident of the U.S.
In mathematics, Horner's method (also known as Horner scheme in the UK or Horner's rule in the U.S..
&quot;Hapworth 16, 1924&quot; was the last original work of Salinger's to be published in his lifetime. It appeared in the June 19, 1965, edition of The New Yorker, infamously taking up almost the entire magazine.
Hypnotic (from Greek Hypnos, sleep) or soporific drugs, commonly known as sleeping pills, are a class of psychoactive drugs whose primary function is to induce sleep and to be used in the treatment of insomnia (sleeplessness), or surgical anesthesia.When used in anesthesia to produce and maintain unconsciousness, &quot;sleep&quot; is metaphorical as there are no regular sleep stages or cyclical natural states; patients rarely recover from anesthesia feeling refreshed and with renewed energy.
HMS Dunraven was a Q-Ship of the Royal Navy during World War I.
Hacker ethic is a term for the moral values and philosophy that are common in hacker culture. In other words, those who possess positive hacker ethic acknowledge that sharing information and data responsibly is very beneficial and helpful.
A hotel is an establishment that provides paid lodging on a short-term basis. Facilities provided may range from a modest-quality mattress in a small room to large suites with bigger, higher-quality beds, a dresser, a fridge and other kitchen facilities, upholstered chairs, a flatscreen television and en-suite bathrooms.
Hebrew mythology may refer to:
Hubris (, also hybris, from ancient Greek  In its ancient Greek context, it typically describes behavior that defies the norms of behavior or challenges the gods, and which in turn brings about the downfall, or nemesis, of the perpetrator of hubris.
The history of Science and Technology (HST) is a field of history which examines how humanity's understanding of the natural world (science) and ability to manipulate it (technology) have changed over the centuries.  This academic discipline also studies the cultural, economic, and political impacts of scientific innovation.
The holographic principle is a principle of string theories and a supposed property of quantum gravity that states that the description of a volume of space can be thought of as encoded on a lower-dimensional boundary to the region—preferably a light-like boundary like a gravitational horizon. First proposed by Gerard 't Hooft, it was given a precise string-theory interpretation by Leonard Susskind who combined his ideas with previous ones of 't Hooft and Charles Thorn.
The Hussites ( or Kališníci; &quot;Chalice People&quot;) were a pre-Protestant Christian movement which began in the Kingdom of Bohemia and followed the teachings of Czech reformer Jan Hus, who became the best known representative of the Bohemian Reformation.
Five ships of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS Ark Royal:
Saint Herman of Alaska (;  1750s – November 15, 1836) was a Russian Orthodox monk and missionary to Alaska, which was then part of Russian America. His gentle approach and ascetic life earned him the love and respect of both the native Alaskans and the Russian colonists.
thumb|280px|Example of non-integer dimensions. The first four [[iterations of the Koch curve, where after each iteration, all original line segments are replaced with four, each a self-similar copy that is 1/3 the length of the original.
(MP5A2)
Ham is pork that has been preserved through salting, smoking, or wet curing. It was traditionally made only from the hind leg of swine, and referred to that specific cut of pork.
HTOL}}
}}
The Hall effect is the production of a voltage difference (the Hall voltage) across an electrical conductor, transverse to an electric current in the conductor and to an applied magnetic field perpendicular to the current. It was discovered by Edwin Hall in 1879.
Holger Pedersen may refer to:
(United States)
A harpsichord is a musical instrument played by means of a keyboard, a row of levers which the player presses.  When the player presses one or more keys, this triggers a mechanism, which plucks one or more strings with a small quill.
Hair is a protein filament that grows from follicles found in the dermis, or skin. Hair is one of the defining characteristics of mammals.
The Hawker Siddeley Harrier, developed in the 1960s, was the first of the Harrier Jump Jet series of aircraft. It was the first operational close-support and reconnaissance fighter aircraft with vertical/short takeoff and landing (V/STOL) capabilities and the only truly successful V/STOL design of the many that arose in that era.
The Hawker Harrier was an experimental biplane torpedo bomber aircraft built by Hawker Aircraft to a specification issued in the 1920s  for the RAF.
The Horned God is one of the two primary deities found in Wicca and some related forms of Neopaganism.
Haggis is a savoury pudding containing sheep's pluck (heart, liver and lungs); minced with onion, oatmeal, suet, spices, and salt, mixed with stock, traditionally encased in the animal's stomach though now often in an artificial casing instead. According to the 2001 English edition of the Larousse Gastronomique: &quot;Although its description is not immediately appealing, haggis has an excellent nutty texture and delicious savoury flavour&quot;.
The Holy Grail is a vessel that serves as an important motif in Arthurian literature. Different traditions describe it as a cup, dish or stone with miraculous powers that provide happiness, eternal youth or sustenance in infinite abundance.
Hunt the Wumpus is an early computer game, based on a simple hide and seek format featuring a mysterious monster (the Wumpus) that lurks deep inside a network of rooms.  It was originally developed as a text-based game written in BASIC.
Hash, hashes, hash mark, or hashing may refer to:
Five ships of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS Hercules, or HMS Hercule, after the Greek and Roman hero Hercules. Another was launched, but never served in the Navy:
Five ships of the Royal Australian Navy (RAN) have been named HMAS Sydney, after Sydney, the capital city of New South Wales.
Historicism is the idea of attributing meaningful significance to space and time, such as historical period, geographical place, and local culture. Historicism tends to be hermeneutical because it values cautious, rigorous, and contextualized interpretation of information; or relativist, because it rejects notions of universal, fundamental and immutable interpretations.
{{sidebar|navbar=off
Human sexual activity, human sexual practice or human sexual behaviour is the manner in which humans experience and express their sexuality. People engage in a variety of sexual acts, ranging from activities done alone (e.
thumb|right|Figure 1: A hydraulic ram that drives a fountain at the [[Centre for Alternative Technology]]
}}
Hops are the flowers (also called seed cones or strobiles) of the hop plant Humulus lupulus. They are used primarily as a flavoring and stability agent in beer, to which they impart bitter, zesty, or citric flavours; though they are also used for various purposes in other beverages and herbal medicine.
Hack may refer to:
Huey, Dewey, and Louie Duck are triplet cartoon characters created in 1937 by writer Ted Osborne and cartoonist Al Taliaferro, and are owned by The Walt Disney Company. Huey, Dewey, and Louie are the nephews of Donald Duck and the grandnephews of Scrooge McDuck.
Hammurabi (c. 1810 BC - 1750 BC) (Akkadian  Ḫa-am-mu-ra-bi) was the sixth king of the First Babylonian Dynasty, reigning from 1792 BC to 1750 BC (according to the Middle Chronology).
thumb|300px|right|Wave [[refraction in the manner of Huygens]]
Honey is a sweet, viscous food substance produced by bees and some related insects. Bees produce honey from the sugary secretions of plants (floral nectar) or other insects (aphid honeydew) through regurgitation, enzymatic activity, and water evaporation, and store it in wax structures called honeycombs.
Hengist and Horsa are legendary brothers said to have led the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes in their invasion of Britain in the 5th century. Tradition lists Hengist as the first of the Jutish kings of Kent.
The Hero System is a generic role-playing game system that was developed from the superhero RPG Champions.  After Champions fourth edition was released in 1989, a stripped-down version of its ruleset with no superhero or other genre elements was released as The Hero System Rulesbook in 1990.
Hecate or Hekate (; Greek ) is a goddess in Ancient Greek religion and mythology, most often shown holding two torches or a keyThe Running Maiden from Eleusis and the Early Classical Image of Hekate by Charles M. Edwards in the American Journal of Archaeology, Vol.
Haematopoiesis (from Greek αἷμα, &quot;blood&quot; and ποιεῖν &quot;to make&quot;; also hematopoiesis in American English; sometimes also haemopoiesis or hemopoiesis) is the formation of blood cellular components. All cellular blood components are derived from haematopoietic stem cells.
Hogmanay (;The Concise Scots Dictionary Cambers (1985)   ) is the Scots word for the last day of the year and is synonymous with the celebration of the New Year (Gregorian calendar) in the Scottish manner.  It is normally followed by further celebration on the morning of New Year's Day (1 January) or, in some cases, 2 January—a Scottish bank holiday.
Hamsters are rodents belonging to the subfamily Cricetinae. The subfamily contains about 25 species, classified in six or seven genera.
The land area that now makes up Finland was settled immediately after the last ice age, which ended in 9000 BC. Most of the region was a part of the Kingdom of Sweden from the 13th century to 1809, when the vast majority of the Finnish-speaking areas of Sweden were ceded to the Russian Empire (excluding the areas of the modern-day Northern Sweden where Meänkieli dialects of Finnish are spoken), making this area the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland.
Holy Spirit or Holy Ghost is a term found in English translations of the Bible that is understood differently among the Abrahamic religions. The term is also used to describe aspects of other religions and belief structures.
}}
In quantum mechanics, a Hamiltonian is an operator corresponding to the total energy of the system in most of the cases. It is usually denoted by H, also Ȟ or Ĥ.
High hat}}
HAL 9000 is a fictional character and the main antagonist in Arthur C. Clarke's Space Odyssey series.
}}
A hydroxy or hydroxyl group is the entity with the formula OH. It contains oxygen bonded to hydrogen.
Warm-blooded animal species can maintain a body temperature higher than their environment. In particular, homeothermic species maintain a stable body temperature by regulating metabolic processes.
Hephaestus (,  or ; [spellings|eight spellings];  Hēphaistos) is the Greek god of blacksmiths, metalworking, carpenters, craftsmen, artisans, sculptors, metallurgy, fire, and volcanoes.Walter Burkert, Greek Religion 1985: III.
Herman Charles Bosman (3 February 1905 – 14 October 1951) is widely regarded as South Africa's greatest short-story writer. He studied the works of Edgar Allan Poe and Mark Twain and developed a style emphasizing the use of satire.
Hungarian may refer to:
A howitzer  is a type of artillery piece characterized by a relatively short barrel and the use of comparatively small propellant charges to propel projectiles over relatively high trajectories, with a steep angle of descent.
}}
The history of science is the study of the  development of science and scientific knowledge, including both the natural sciences and social sciences. (The history of the arts and humanities is termed as the history of scholarship.
Hesychasm is a mystical tradition of contemplative prayer in the Eastern Orthodox Church. Based on Christ's injunction in the Gospel of Matthew that &quot;when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray&quot;,Matthew 6:6 (King James Version) hesychasm in tradition has been the process of retiring inward by ceasing to register the senses, in order to achieve an experiential knowledge of God (see theoria).
Hemlock may refer to:
thumb|250px|right|The Harmony Society church in [[Old Economy Village|Old Economy Village, Pennsylvania.]]
Huneric or Hunneric or Honeric (died December 23, 484) was King of the (North African) Vandal kingdom (477–484) and the oldest son of Genseric. He abandoned the imperial politics of his father and concentrated mainly on internal affairs.
The Hasdingi were the southern tribes of the Vandals, an East Germanic tribe.  They lived in areas of today's southern Poland, western Ukraine, Slovakia and Hungary.
Hermes (; ) is an Olympian god in Greek religion and mythology, the son of Zeus and the Pleiad Maia, and the second youngest of the Olympian gods (Dionysus being the youngest).
A hedge fund is an investment fund that pools capital from accredited individuals or institutional investors and invests in a variety of assets, often with complex portfolio-construction and risk-management techniques.  It is administered by a professional investment management firm, and often structured as a limited partnership, limited liability company, or similar vehicle.
Hypnosis is a state of human consciousness involving focused attention and reduced peripheral awareness and an enhanced capacity to respond to suggestion. The term may also refer to an art, skill, or act of inducing hypnosis.
the academic journal|Higher Education (novel)the novel}}
Henotheism () is the worship of a single god while not denying the existence or possible existence of other deities. Friedrich Schelling (1775–1854) coined the word, and Friedrich Welcker (1784–1868) used it to depict primordial monotheism among ancient Greeks.
Hasidism, sometimes Hasidic Judaism (, hasidut, Ashkenazi pronunciation: [χaˈsidus]; originally, &quot;piety&quot;), is a Jewish religious group. It arose as a spiritual revival movement in contemporary Western Ukraine during the 18th century, and spread rapidly throughout Eastern Europe.
thumb|250px|Harmonic series of a string with terms written as [[multiplicative inverse|reciprocals (2/1 written as 1/2)]]
Hasid (, &quot;pious&quot;; plural &quot;Hasidim&quot;, חסידים) is a Jewish honorific, frequently used as a term of exceptional respect in the Talmudic and early medieval periods. In classic Rabbinic literature it differs from &quot;Tzadik&quot;-&quot;righteous&quot;, by instead denoting one who goes beyond the legal requirements of ritual and ethical Jewish observance in daily life.
Hoosier Hysteria is the state of excitement surrounding basketball in Indiana, or more specifically the Indiana high school basketball tournament. In part, the excitement stemmed from the inclusion of all tournament entrants into the same tournament, where a small town's David might knock off a large city's Goliath.
Hardcore, hard core or hard-core may refer to:
Henry, Prince of Wales|other princes called Henry or Harry|Prince Henry (disambiguation)}}
Hail is a form of solid precipitation. It is distinct from ice pellets (American sleet), though the two are often confused.
}}
In mathematics, the harmonic mean (sometimes called the subcontrary mean) is one of several kinds of average, and in particular one of the Pythagorean means. Typically, it is appropriate for situations when the average of rates is desired.
Heimskringla () is the best known of the Old Norse kings' sagas. It was written in Old Norse in Iceland by the poet and historian Snorri Sturluson (1178/79–1241) ca.
}}
thumbnail|IHÉS main building
.}}}}
The music of India includes multiple varieties of Indian classical music, folk music, filmi and Indian pop. India's classical music tradition, including Hindustani music and Carnatic, has a history spanning millennia and developed over several eras.
.
The Internet is the global system of interconnected computer networks that use the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) to link devices worldwide. It is a network of networks that consists of private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope, linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless, and optical networking technologies.
Indo-European most commonly refers to the Indo-European languages originating in Eurasia.
Industry is the production of goods or related services within an economy.Industry | Define Industry at Dictionary.
I, Robot is a collection of science fiction short stories by American writer Isaac Asimov.   The stories originally appeared in the American magazines Super Science Stories and Astounding Science Fiction between 1940 and 1950 and were then compiled into a book for stand-alone publication by Gnome Press in 1950, in an initial edition of 5,000 copies.
&quot;Invictus&quot; is a short Victorian poem by the English poet William Ernest Henley (1849–1903). It was written in 1875 and published in 1888—originally with no title—in his first volume of poems, Book of Verses, in the section Life and Death (Echoes).
The tertiary sector or service sector is the third of the three economic sectors of the three-sector theory. The others are the secondary sector (approximately the same as manufacturing), and the primary sector (raw materials).
==Agriculture==
The secondary sector include industries that produce a finished, usable product or are involved in construction.
An imaginary numberThis is the definition adopted in this article. is a complex number that can be written as a real number multiplied by the imaginary unit ,j is often used in Engineering contexts where i has other meanings (such as electrical current) which is defined by its property .
An indictment ( ), in the common law system, is a formal accusation that a person has committed a crime. In jurisdictions that use the concept of felonies, the most serious criminal offence is a felony; jurisdictions that do not use the concept of felonies often use that of an indictable offence—an offence that requires an indictment.
}}
The Irish diaspora () refers to Irish people and their descendants who live outside Ireland.
Impressionism in music was a movement among various composers in Western classical music (mainly during the late 19th and early 20th centuries) whose music focuses on suggestion and atmosphere, &quot;conveying the moods and emotions aroused by the subject rather than a detailed tone‐picture&quot;.Michael Kennedy, &quot;Impressionism&quot;, The Oxford Dictionary of Music, second edition, revised, Joyce Bourne, associate editor (Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 2006).
}}
In the mathematical field of numerical analysis, interpolation is a method of constructing new data points within the range of a discrete set of known data points.
In linguistics, logic, philosophy, and other fields, an intension is any property or quality connoted by a word, phrase, or another symbol. In the case of a word, the word's definition often implies an intension.
&quot;Ich bin ein Berliner&quot; (, &quot;I am a Berliner&quot;) is a quotation from a June 26, 1963, speech by U.S.
Īao Valley
In Internet slang, a troll (, ) is a person who sows discord on the Internet by starting quarrels or upsetting people,
Politics in India take place within the framework of its constitution, because India is a federal parliamentary democratic republic, in which the President of India is the head of state and the Prime Minister of India is the head of the central government. India follows the dual polity system, i.
Transport in India consists of transport by land, water and air. Public transport remains the primary mode of transport for most Indian citizens, and India's public transport systems are among the most heavily used in the world.
The Ministry of External Affairs of India (MEA), also known as the Foreign Ministry, is the government agency responsible for the conduct of foreign relations of India. India has formal diplomatic relations with most nations; it is the world's second most populous country.
Indian religions, sometimes also termed as Dharmic faiths or religions, are the religions that originated in the Indian subcontinent; namely Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism. Adams, C.
Infusion refers to the process of extracting chemical compounds or flavors from plant material in a solvent by allowing the material to remain suspended in the solvent over time.
Italian may refer to:
}}
Infectious diseases arranged by name.
thumb|right|Inorganic compounds show rich variety:
In film, an insert is a shot of part of a scene as filmed from a different angle and/or focal length from the master shot. Inserts cover action already covered in the master shot, but emphasize a different aspect of that action due to the different framing.
]}}
An inventor is a person who creates or discovers a new method, form, device or other useful means. The word inventor comes form the Latin verb invenire, invent-, to find.
The history of Indonesia has been shaped by its geographic position, its natural resources, a series of human migrations and contacts, wars and conquests, as well as by trade, economics and politics. Indonesia is an archipelagic country of 17,000 to 18,000 islands (8,844 named and 922 permanently inhabited) stretching along the equator in South East Asia.
Indonesia is an archipelagic island country in South east Asia, lying between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. It is in a strategic location astride or along major sea lanes from Indian Ocean to Pacific Ocean.
The population of Indonesia according to the 2010 national census was 237.64 million, and it was estimated to reach 255.
The Politics of Indonesia take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Indonesia is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$940.953 billion (2016 est.
Communications in Indonesia has a complex history due to the need to reach an extended archipelago of over 17,500 islands. The once important non-electronic communication methods of the past have given away to a considerable telecommunications infrastructure in contemporary Indonesia.
Indonesia's transport system has been shaped over time by the economic resource base of an archipelago with thousands of islands, and the distribution of its more than 200 million people highly concentrated on a single island, Java.Indonesia's Diversity Revisited http://cip.
Since independence, Indonesia  foreign relations have adhered to a &quot;free and active&quot; foreign policy, seeking to play a role in regional affairs commensurate with its size and location but avoiding involvement in conflicts among major powers. Indonesian foreign policy under the &quot;New Order&quot; government of President Suharto moved away from the stridently anti-Western, anti-American posturing that characterised the latter part of the Sukarno era.
The islands of Indonesia, also known as the Indonesian archipelago and formerly known as the Indian archipelago, ma  not either to the islands comprising the nation-state of Indonesia or to the geographical groups which include its islands. According to the Indonesian Coordinating Ministry for Maritime Affairs, of 17,504 officially listed islands within the territory of the Republic of Indonesia, 16,056 island names have been verified by the United Nations Group of Experts on Geographical Names (UNGEGN) as of July 2017.
}}
The territory of the modern state of Iraq was defined in 1920 as Mandatory Iraq. It is centered on Lower Mesopotamia (corresponding to historical Babylonia, later also known as ʿIrāq-i ʿArab) but also includes part of Upper Mesopotamia  and of the Syrian Desert and the Arabian Desert.
thumb|Overview map of Iraq.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Iraq, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Iraq  place in a framework of a federal parliamentary representative democratic republic. It is a multi-party system whereby the executive power is exercised by the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers as the head of government, as well as the President of Iraq, and legislative power is vested in the Council of Representatives and the Federation Council.
}}
Transport in Iraq consists of railways, highways, waterways, pipelines, ports and harbors, marines and airports.
}}
per km2
Ireland is a parliamentary, representative democratic republic and a member state of the European Union. While the head of state is the popularly elected President of Ireland, it is a largely ceremonial position with real political power being vested in the indirectly elected Taoiseach (leader of government) who is the head of the government.
Telecommunications in Ireland operate in a regulated competitive market that provides customers with a wide array of advanced digital services. This article explores Ireland's telecommunications infrastructure including: fixed and mobile networks, voice, data and Internet services, cable television, developments in next generation networks and broadcast networks for radio and television.
Most of the transport system in Ireland is in public hands, either side of the Irish border. The Irish road network has evolved separately in the two jurisdictions into which Ireland is divided, while the Irish rail network was mostly created prior to the partition of Ireland.
The foreign relations of Ireland are substantially influenced by its membership of the European Union, although bilateral relations with the United States and United Kingdom are also important to the state. It is one of the group of smaller nations in the EU, and has traditionally followed a non-aligned foreign policy.
)
The Israeli Declaration of Independence,Hebrew: הכרזת העצמאות, Hakhrazat HaAtzma'ut/מגילת העצמאות Megilat HaAtzma'utArabic: وثيقة إعلان قيام دولة إسرائيل, Wathiqat 'iielan qiam dawlat 'iisrayiyl formally the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel, was proclaimed on 14 May 1948 (5 Iyar 5708) by David Ben-Gurion, the Executive Head of the World Zionist OrganizationThen known as the Zionist Organization. and the chairman of the Jewish Agency for Palestine.
Italy is located in southern Europe and comprises the long, boot-shaped Italian Peninsula, the southern side of Alps, the large plain of the Po Valley and some islands including Sicily and Sardinia. Corsica, although belonging to the Italian geographical region, has been a part of France since 1769.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Italy, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Italy is conducted through a Parliamentary Republic with a multi-party system. Italy has been a democratic republic since 2 June 1946, when the monarchy was abolished by popular referendum and a constituent assembly was elected to draft a constitution, which was promulgated on 1 January 1948.
Telephones - main lines in use:CIA World Fact Book
Italy has a well developed transport infrastructure.
Foreign relations of the Italian Republic are the Italian government's external relations with the outside world. Located in Europe, Italy has been considered a major Western power  since its unification in 1861.
Icet}}
The Iron Age is an archaeological era, referring to a period of time in the prehistory and protohistory of the Old World (Afro-Eurasia) when the dominant toolmaking material was iron. It is commonly preceded by the Bronze Age in Europe and Asia and the Stone Age in Africa, with exceptions.
}}
}}
An IRC channel takeover is an acquisition of IRC channel operator status by someone other than the channel's owner. It has largely been eliminated due to the increased use of services on IRC networks.
Manual. irssi.
Intellectual property (IP) refers to creations of the intellect for which a monopoly is assigned to designated owners by law. Intellectual property rights (IPRs) are the rights granted to the creators of IP, and include trademarks, copyright, patents, industrial design rights, and in some jurisdictions trade secrets.
(Manx)
The Italic languages are a subfamily of the Indo-European language family, originally spoken by Italic peoples. They include Latin and its descendants (the Romance languages) as well as a number of extinct languages of the Italian Peninsula, including Umbrian, Oscan, Faliscan and South Picene.
Internet Relay Chat (IRC) is an application layer protocol that facilitates communication in the form of text. The chat process works on a client/server networking model.
An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek  idéa &quot;idea&quot; and  gráphō &quot;to write&quot;) is a graphic symbol that represents an idea or concept, independent of any particular language, and specific words or phrases.  Some ideograms are comprehensible only by familiarity with prior convention; others convey their meaning through pictorial resemblance to a physical object, and thus may also be referred to as pictograms.
The Irish Republican Army (IRA) () was an Irish republican revolutionary paramilitary organisation. The ancestor to many groups also known as the Irish Republican Army, it was descended from the Irish Volunteers, an organisation established on 25 November 1913 that staged the Easter Rising in April 1916.
Iron is a chemical element with symbol Fe (from ) and atomic number 26. It is a metal in the first transition series.
IEEE 802.15 is a working group of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) IEEE 802 standards committee which specifies wireless personal area network (WPAN) standards.
IEEE 802 is a family of IEEE standards dealing with local area networks and metropolitan area networks.
IEEE 802.11 is a set of media access control (MAC) and physical layer (PHY) specifications for implementing wireless local area network (WLAN) computer communication in the 900 MHz and 2.
Irn-Bru ( &quot;iron brew&quot;) is a Scottish carbonated soft drink, often described as &quot;Scotland's other national drink&quot; (after whisky). It is produced in Westfield, Cumbernauld, North Lanarkshire, by A.
In computer network engineering, an Internet Standard is a normative specification of a technology or methodology applicable to the Internet. Internet Standards are created and published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
ISOC is an abbreviation which may refer to:
The ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T) is one of the three sectors (divisions or units) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU); it coordinates standards for telecommunications.
Indian or Indians may refer to:
Internalization (or internalisation) has different definitions depending on the field that the term is used in. Internalization is the opposite of externalization.
Ionic or Ionian may refer to:
Indium is a chemical element with symbol In and atomic number 49. It is a post-transition metal that makes up 0.
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and atomic number 53. The heaviest of the stable halogens, it exists as a lustrous, purple-black metallic solid at standard conditions that sublimes readily to form a violet gas.
Älmhult, Sweden
Iridium is a chemical element with symbol Ir and atomic number 77. A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum group, iridium is generally credited with being the second densest element (after osmium).
IOC most commonly refers to the International Olympic Committee.
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is an alphabetic system of phonetic notation based primarily on the Latin alphabet. It was devised by the International Phonetic Association in the late 19th century as a standardized representation of the sounds of spoken language.
}}
The Isle of Man had become separated from Britain and Ireland by 6500 BC. It appears that colonisation took place by sea sometime during the Mesolithic era (about 6500 BC).
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Isle of Man, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The UN estimate of population as at mid-2016 is 88,500.
}}
Offshore banking, manufacturing, and tourism form key sectors of the economy of the Isle of Man, a British Crown dependency in the Irish Sea.
The Isle of Man has an extensive communications infrastructure consisting of telephone cables, submarine cables, and an array of television and mobile phone transmitters and towers.
There are a number of transport services around the Isle of Man, mostly consisting of paved roads, public transport, rail services, sea ports and an airport.
Information theory studies the quantification, storage, and communication of information.  It was originally proposed by Claude E.
The information explosion is the rapid increase in the amount of published information or data and the effects of this abundance.Hilbert, M.
 yd  ft
INS}}
The International Olympiad in Informatics (IOI) is an annual competitive programming competition for secondary school students. It is the second largest olympiad, after International Mathematical Olympiad, in terms of number of participating countries (IOI 2014 saw participation of 84 countries).
Iota (; uppercase Ι, lowercase ι; ) is the ninth letter of the Greek alphabet. It was derived from the Phoenician letter Yodh.
An ISP is an Internet service provider, an organization that provides services for accessing, using, or participating in the Internet.
Erectile dysfunction (ED), also known as impotence, is a type of sexual dysfunction characterized by the inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis during sexual activity in humans. A penile erection is the hydraulic effect of blood entering and being retained in sponge-like bodies within the penis.
}}
–
by MIT
Interactive fiction, often abbreviated IF, is software simulating environments in which players use text commands to control characters and influence the environment. Works in this form can be understood as literary narratives, either in the form of Interactive narratives or Interactive narrations.
}}
IEEE 802.3 is a working group and a collection of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) standards produced by the working group defining the physical layer and data link layer's media access control (MAC) of wired Ethernet.
In computer science, an integer is a datum of integral data type, a data type that represents some finite subset of the mathematical integers. Integral data types may be of different sizes and may or may not be allowed to contain negative values.
An icon (from Greek  eikōn &quot;image&quot;) is a religious work of art, most commonly a painting, from the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodoxy, and certain Eastern Catholic churches. The most common subjects include Christ, Mary, saints and/or angels.
Iconology is a method of interpretation in cultural history and the history of art used by Aby Warburg, Erwin Panofsky and their followers that uncovers the cultural, social, and historical background of themes and subjects in the visual arts.Roelof van Straten, An Introduction to Iconography: Symbols, Allusions and Meaning in the Visual Arts.
In the history of the European colonization of North America, an atrocity termed &quot;Indian massacre&quot; is a specific incident wherein a group of people (military, mob or other) deliberately kill a significant number of relatively defenseless or innocent people—usually civilian noncombatants or to the summary execution of prisoners-of-war. The term refers to the killings of Euro-Americans by Native Americans (Indians) as well as to killings of Native Americans by Euro-Americans and/or by other Native Americans.
The Islamic, Muslim, or Hijri calendar ( at-taqwīm al-hijrī) is a lunar calendar consisting of 12 months in a year of 354 or 355 days. It is used (often alongside the Gregorian calendar) to date events in many Muslim countries.
250px|thumb|[[Boxplot (with an interquartile range) and a probability density function (pdf) of a Normal  Population]]
Dr. Henry Walton &quot;Indiana&quot; Jones, Jr.
An irreducible fraction (or fraction in lowest terms or reduced fraction) is a fraction in which the numerator and denominator are integers that have no other common divisors than 1 (and -1, when negative numbers are considered). In other words, a fraction a⁄b is irreducible if and only if a and b are coprime, that is, if a and b have a greatest common divisor of 1.
An isomorphism class is a collection of mathematical objects isomorphic to each other.
In mathematics, an isomorphism (from the Ancient Greek: [isos &quot;equal&quot;, and μορφή] morphe &quot;form&quot; or &quot;shape&quot;) is a [[homomorphism or morphism (i.e.
Given a set S with a partial order ≤, an infinite descending chain is an infinite, strictly decreasing sequence of elements x1 &gt; x2 &gt; ... &gt; xn &gt; ...
Public international law concerns the structure and conduct of sovereign states; analogous entities, such as the Holy See; and intergovernmental organizations. To a lesser degree, international law also may affect multinational corporations and individuals, an impact increasingly evolving beyond domestic legal interpretation and enforcement.
An intergovernmental organization or international governmental organization (IGO) is an organization composed primarily of sovereign states (referred to as member states), or of other intergovernmental organizations. Intergovernmental organizations are often called international organizations, although that term may also include international nongovernmental organization such as international nonprofit organizations or multinational corporations.
*
In computing, the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) is an Internet standard protocol used by e-mail clients to retrieve e-mail messages from a mail server over a TCP/IP connection. IMAP is defined by RFC 3501.
Framing}}
}}
Integration may refer to:
Interstellar travel is the term used for hypothetical piloted or unpiloted travel between stars or planetary systems. Interstellar travel will be much more difficult than interplanetary spaceflight; the distances between the planets in the Solar System are less than 30 astronomical units (AU)—whereas the distances between stars are typically hundreds of thousands of AU, and usually expressed in light-years.
Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (IGRP) is a distance vector interior gateway protocol (IGP) developed by Cisco. It is used by routers to exchange routing data within an autonomous system.
IRS is the United States Internal Revenue Service.
Indo-European}}
In linear algebra, an inner product space is a vector space with an additional structure called an inner product. This additional structure associates each pair of vectors in the space with a scalar quantity known as the inner product of the vectors.
An incunable, or sometimes incunabulum (plural incunables or incunabula, respectively), is a book, pamphlet, or broadside (such as the Almanach cracoviense ad annum 1474) that was printed—not handwritten—before the year 1501 in Europe.
Isotropy is uniformity in all orientations; it is derived from the Greek isos (ἴσος, &quot;equal&quot;) and tropos (τρόπος, &quot;way&quot;). Precise definitions depend on the subject area.
The International Mathematical Union (IMU) is an international non-governmental organisation devoted to international cooperation in the field of mathematics across the world. It is a member of the International Council for Science (ICSU) and supports the International Congress of Mathematicians.
IBM mainframes are large computer systems produced by IBM since 1952. During the 1960s and 1970s, the term mainframe computer was almost synonymous with IBM products due to their marketshare.
Induction may refer to:
Interval may refer to:
ICC may refer to:
An incubus is a male demon that has sexual intercourse with sleeping women.
thumb|Intermediate value theorem: Let f be a defined continuous function on [a, b] and let s be a number with f(a) &lt; s &lt; f(b). Then there exists at least one x with f(x) = s
listing to port after being mistakenly struck by an Iraqi warplane (middle left); Pro-Iraq PMOI forces killed in Operation Mersad (middle right); Iraqi prisoners of war after the re-capture of Khorramshahr by Iranians (below left); ZU-23-2 being used by the Iranian Army (below right).
Incremental reading is a method for learning and retaining information from reading that might otherwise be forgotten. It is particularly targeted to people who are trying to learn a large amount of information at once, particularly if that information is varied.
Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreatic islets, and it is considered to be the main anabolic hormone of the body. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates, fats and protein by promoting the absorption of, especially, glucose from the blood into fat, liver and skeletal muscle cells.
An inductor, also called a coil or reactor, is a passive two-terminal electrical component that stores electrical energy in a magnetic field when electric current flows through it.  An inductor typically consists of an electric conductor, such as a wire, that is wound into a coil around a core.
An insulin pump is a medical device used for the administration of insulin in the treatment of diabetes mellitus, also known as continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion therapy.
ISO 3166 is a standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) that defines codes for the names of countries, dependent territories, special areas of geographical interest, and their principal subdivisions (e.g.
Intensive insulinotherapy is a therapeutic regimen for diabetes mellitus treatment.  This newer approach contrasts with conventional insulinotherapy.
Interwiki linking (W-link) is a facility for creating links to the many wikis on the World Wide Web. Users avoid pasting in entire URLs (as they would for regular web pages) and instead use a shorthand similar to links within the same wiki (intrawiki links).
thumb|right|A function  and its inverse . Because  maps  to 3, the inverse  maps 3 back to .
Inertia is the resistance of any physical object to any change in its state of motion. This includes changes to the object's speed, direction, or state of rest.
in Nagoya, Japan
Incest is sexual activity between family members or close relatives. This typically includes sexual activity between people in a consanguineous relationship (blood relations), and sometimes those related by affinity, stepfamily, those related by adoption or marriage, or members of the same clan or lineage.
The Industrial Revolution was the transition to new manufacturing processes in the period from about 1760 to sometime between 1820 and 1840. This transition included going from hand production methods to machines, new chemical manufacturing and iron production processes, the increasing use of steam power, the development of machine tools and the rise of the factory system.
State Parties]]
An Internet Protocol address (IP address) is a numerical label assigned to each device connected to a computer network that uses the Internet Protocol for communication.RFC 760, DOD Standard Internet Protocol (January 1980)  An IP address serves two principal functions: host or network interface identification and location addressing.
Logical symbols representing iff}}
IP may refer to:
This is a list of Italian dishes and foods. Italian cuisine has developed through centuries of social and political changes, with roots as far back as the 4th century BC.
thumb|right|200px|Isaac Ambrose.
}}
Individualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasize the individual and their will over external determinants such as groups, society, traditions, and ideological systems.&quot;What do I mean by individualism?
An intercontinental ballistic  missile (ICBM) is a guided ballistic missile with a minimum range of  primarily designed for nuclear weapons delivery (delivering one or more thermonuclear warheads). Similarly, conventional, chemical, and biological weapons can also be delivered with varying effectiveness, but have never been deployed on ICBMs.
Irish traditional music sessions are mostly informal gatherings at which people play Irish traditional music. The Irish language word for &quot;session&quot; is seisiún.
Ice is water frozen into a solid state. Depending on the presence of impurities such as particles of soil or bubbles of air, it can appear transparent or a more or less opaque bluish-white color.
Ionic bonding is a type of chemical bond that involves the electrostatic attraction between oppositely charged ions, and is the primary interaction occurring in ionic compounds. The ions are atoms that have gained one or more electrons (known as anions, which are negatively charged) and atoms that have lost one or more electrons (known as cations, which are positively charged).
IBF may refer to:
The immune system is a host defense system comprising many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue.
]]}}
IPA is the International Phonetic Alphabet, a system of phonetic notation.
Ice beer is a marketing term for pale lager beer brands which have undergone some degree of fractional freezing somewhat similar to the German Eisbock production method. These brands generally have higher alcohol content than typical beer and generally have a low price relative to their alcohol content.
In mathematics, an identity element or neutral element is a special type of element of a set with respect to a binary operation on that set, which leaves other elements unchanged when combined with them. This concept is used in algebraic structures such as groups.
The International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA, 1983) is an agreement to provide an effective framework for cooperation between tropical timber producers and consumers and to encourage the development of national policies aimed at sustainable utilization and conservation of tropical forests and their genetic resources.
International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994 (ITTA, 1994 or ITTA2) was drafted to ensure that by the year 2000 exports of tropical timber originated from sustainably managed sources and to establish a fund to assist tropical timber producers in obtaining the resources necessary to reach this objective.
An instrumental is a musical composition or recording without lyrics, or singing, although it might include some inarticulate vocals, such as shouted backup vocals in a Big Band setting. The music is primarily or exclusively produced by musical instruments.
In geometry, a regular icosahedron ( or }}) is a convex polyhedron with 20 faces, 30 edges and 12 vertices. It is one of the five Platonic solids, and also the one with the most sides.
The industrial archaeology of Dartmoor covers a number of the industries which have, over the ages, taken place on Dartmoor, and the remaining evidence surrounding them. Currently only three industries are economically significant, yet all three will inevitably leave their own traces on the moor: china clay mining, farming and tourism.
Idempotence (UK: ; US:  ) is the property of certain operations in mathematics and computer science, that can be applied multiple times without changing the result beyond the initial application. The concept of idempotence arises in a number of places in abstract algebra (in particular, in the theory of projectors and closure operators) and functional programming (in which it is connected to the property of referential transparency).
An interstellar cloud is the generic name given to an accumulation of gas, plasma, and dust in our and other galaxies.  Put differently, an interstellar cloud is a denser-than-average region of the interstellar medium.
thumb|Statuette of Imhotep in the [[Louvre]]
Ictinus (; , Iktinos) was an architect active in the mid 5th century BC. Ancient sources identify Ictinus and Callicrates as co-architects of the Parthenon.
Isidore of Miletus (; Medieval Greek pronunciation: ; ) was one of the two main Byzantine Greek architects (Anthemius of Tralles was the other) that Emperor Justinian I commissioned to design the church of Hagia Sophia in Constantinople from 532-537. He also created the first comprehensive compilation of Archimedes' works.
IMO or Imo may refer to:
}}
The International African Institute (IAI) was founded (as the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures - IIALC) in 1926 in London for the study of African languages. Frederick Lugard was the first chairman (1926 to his death in 1945); Diedrich Hermann Westermann (1926 to 1939) and Maurice Delafosse (1926) were the initial co-directors.
IAI is an acronym for:
thumb|ILGF
IGF may stand for:
An idiot, dolt, dullard or (archaically) mome is a person perceived to be lacking intelligence, or someone who acts in a self-defeating or significantly counterproductive way. Along with the similar terms moron, imbecile, and cretin, the word archaically referred to the intellectually disabled, but have all since gained specialized meanings in modern times.
Islamism is a concept whose meaning has been debated in both public and academic contexts. The term can refer to diverse forms of social and political activism advocating that public and political life should be guided by Islamic principles, or more specifically to movements which call for full implementation of sharia.
An instructional theory is &quot;a theory that offers explicit guidance on how to better help people learn and develop.&quot;Reigeluth, C.
Infusoria is a collective term for minute aquatic creatures such as ciliates, euglenoids, protozoa, unicellular algae and small invertebrates that exist in freshwater ponds. Some authors (e.
ISO/IEC 8859-1:1998, Information technology — 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets — Part 1: Latin alphabet No. 1, is part of the ISO/IEC 8859 series of ASCII-based standard character encodings, first edition published in 1987.
ISO/IEC 8859 is a joint ISO and IEC series of standards for 8-bit character encodings. The series of standards consists of numbered parts, such as ISO/IEC 8859-1, ISO/IEC 8859-2, etc.
Infrared radiation, or simply infrared  or IR, is electromagnetic radiation (EMR) with longer wavelengths than those of visible light, and is therefore invisible, although it is sometimes loosely called infrared light. It extends from the nominal red edge of the visible spectrum at 700 nanometers (frequency 430 THz), to 1000000 nm (300 GHz) (although people can see infrared up to at least 1050 nm in experiments).
thumb|A [[Hoberman sphere as an icosidodecahedron]]
ISO 8601 Data elements and interchange formats – Information interchange – Representation of dates and times is an international standard covering the exchange of date and time-related data. It was issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and was first published in 1988.
Isa or ISA may refer to:
IPCC may refer to:
The counties of Ireland (; Ulster-Scots: coonties o Airlann) are sub-national divisions that have been, and in some cases continue to be, used to geographically demarcate areas of local government. These land divisions were formed following the Norman invasion of Ireland in imitation of the counties then in use as units of local government in the Kingdom of England.
The USC Information Sciences Institute (ISI) is a component of the University of Southern California (USC) Viterbi School of Engineering, and specializes in research and development in information processing, computing, and communications technologies. It is located in Marina del Rey, California.
}}
Income is the consumption and savings opportunity gained by an entity within a specified timeframe, which is generally expressed in monetary terms.
Improvisational theatre, often called improv  or impro, is the form of theatre, often comedy, in which most or all of what is performed is unplanned or unscripted: created spontaneously by the performers. In its purest form, the dialogue, action, story, and characters are created collaboratively by the players as the improvisation unfolds in present time, without use of an already prepared, written script.
during STS-132.
Irish most commonly refers to:
(ISFDB). Retrieved 11 March 2012.
IA-32 (short for &quot;Intel Architecture, 32-bit&quot;, sometimes also called i386) is the 32-bit version of the x86 instruction set architecture (ISA), first implemented in the Intel 80386 microprocessors in 1985.  IA-32 is the first incarnation of x86 that supports 32-bit computing; as a result, the &quot;IA-32&quot; term may be used as a metonym to refer to all x86 versions that support 32-bit computing.
Internalism and externalism are two opposing ways of explaining various subjects in several areas of philosophy. These include human motivation, knowledge, justification, meaning, and truth.
}}
Based in Indianapolis since 1984
[(23914007905).jpg|thumb|300x300px|Naturalization ceremony at the Oakton High School] in Virginia, December 2015.
Image and Scanner Interface Specification (ISIS) is an industry standard interface for image scanning technologies, developed by Pixel Translations in 1990 (which became EMC Corporation's Captiva Software and later acquired by OpenText).
}}
The Intel 80286 (also marketed as the iAPX 286 and often called Intel 286) is a 16-bit microprocessor that was introduced on 1 February 1982. It was the first 8086 based CPU with separate, non-multiplexed address and data buses and also the first with memory management and wide protection abilities.
Ivanhoe  is a historical novel by Sir Walter Scott, first published in 1820 in three volumes and subtitled A Romance. At the time it was written it represented a shift by Scott away from fairly realistic novels set in Scotland in the comparatively recent past, to a somewhat fanciful depiction of medieval England.
The isoelectric point (pI, pH(I), IEP), is the pH at which a particular molecule carries no net electrical charge in the statistical mean. The standard nomenclature to represent the isoelectric point is pH(I),Acceptable variants on pH(I) would include pHI, pHIEP, etc;  the main point is that one cannot take the 'power' of I, rather one measures the pH subject to a nominated condition.
thumb|right|An international reply coupon issued in Germany (1992)
}}
The 8086 (&quot;eighty eighty-six&quot;, also called iAPX 86) is a 16-bit microprocessor chip designed by Intel between early 1976 and mid-1978, when it was released. The Intel 8088, released in 1979, is a slightly modified chip with an external 8-bit data bus (allowing the use of cheaper and fewer supporting ICsFewer TTL buffers, latches, multiplexers (although the amount of TTL logic was not drastically reduced).
The Intel 8088 (&quot;eighty-eighty-eight&quot;, also called iAPX 88) microprocessor is a variant of the Intel 8086. Introduced on July 1, 1979, the 8088 had an 8-bit external data bus instead of the 16-bit bus of the 8086.
An electrical insulator is a material whose internal electric charges do not flow freely; very little electric current will flow through it under the influence of an electric field. This contrasts with other materials, semiconductors and conductors, which conduct electric current more easily.
Internetworking is the practice of connecting a computer network with other networks through the use of gateways that provide a common method of routing information packets between the networks. The resulting system of interconnected networks are called an internetwork, or simply an internet.
Infantry is the general branch of an army that engages in military combat on foot. As the troops who engage with the enemy in close-ranged combat, infantry units bear the largest brunt of warfare and typically suffer the greatest number of casualties during a military campaign.
[of the identity function on the real numbers]
The Intel 80386, also known as i386 or just 386, is a 32-bit microprocessor introduced in 1985.More precise: The 80386 architecture was presented in detail in 1984.
In computing, an instruction register (IR) is the part of a CPU's control unit that holds the instruction currently being executed or decoded. In simple processors each instruction to be executed is loaded into the instruction register which holds it while it is decoded, prepared and ultimately executed, which can take several steps.
This is a list of lists of islands in the world grouped by oceans, by continents, and by other classifications. For rank-order lists, see the other lists of islands below.
The Compiler Language With No Pronounceable Acronym, abbreviated INTERCAL, is an esoteric programming language that was created as a parody by Don Woods and James M. Lyon, two Princeton University students, in 1972.
In cryptography, the International Data Encryption Algorithm (IDEA), originally called Improved Proposed Encryption Standard (IPES), is a symmetric-key block cipher designed by James Massey of ETH Zurich and Xuejia Lai and was first described in 1991.  The algorithm was intended as a replacement for the Data Encryption Standard (DES).
An indoor rower, or rowing machine, is a machine used to simulate the action of watercraft rowing for the purpose of exercise or training for rowing. Indoor rowing has become established as a sport in its own right.
Internetwork Packet Exchange (IPX) is the network layer protocol in the IPX/SPX protocol suite. IPX is derived from Xerox Network Systems' IDP.
International human rights instruments are treaties and other international documents relevant to international human rights law and the protection of human rights in general.OHCHR The Core International Human Rights Instruments and their monitoring bodies They can be classified into two categories: declarations, adopted by bodies such as the United Nations General Assembly, which are not legally binding although they may be politically so as soft law; and conventions, which are legally binding instruments concluded under international law.
thumb|358px|Routes of southern removals
IconoclasmLiterally, &quot;image-breaking&quot;, from . Iconoclasm may be also considered as a back-formation from iconoclast (from Greek εἰκοκλάστης).
IWW may refer to:
Isaiah ( or ;
An interpreted language is a programming language for which most of its implementations execute instructions directly, without previously compiling a program into machine-language instructions. The interpreter executes the program directly, translating each statement into a sequence of one or more subroutines already compiled into machine code.
Intifada ( ) is an Arabic word literally meaning, as a noun, &quot;tremor&quot;, &quot;shivering&quot;, &quot;shuddering&quot;.Mary K.
The ionosphere (}}}}) is a region of Earth's upper atmosphere, from about  to  altitude, that includes the thermosphere and parts of the  mesosphere and exosphere. It is ionized by solar radiation, plays an important part in atmospheric electricity and forms the inner edge of the magnetosphere.
; IA:
The Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) is a supporting protocol in the Internet protocol suite. It is used by network devices, including routers, to send error messages and operational information indicating, for example, that a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached.
ICMP  may refer to:
In mathematics, the inverse limit (also called the projective limit or limit) is a construction that allows one to &quot;glue together&quot; several related objects, the precise manner of the gluing process being specified by morphisms between the objects. Inverse limits can be defined in any category.
Interplanetary spaceflight or interplanetary travel is travel between planets, usually within a single planetary system.Interplanetary Flight: an introduction to astronautics.
In physics, interference is a phenomenon in which two waves superpose to form a resultant wave of greater, lower, or the same amplitude. Interference usually refers to the interaction of waves that are correlated or coherent with each other, either because they come from the same source or because they have the same or nearly the same frequency.
In many common law jurisdictions (e.g.
:24-187     :24-185     :24-186
Israeli settlements are civilian communities inhabited by Israeli citizens, almost exclusively of Jewish ethnicity,Oded Haklai, 'The Decisive Path of State Indecisiveness: Israeli Settlers in the West Bank in Comparative Perspective,' in Oded Haklai, Neophytos Loizide (eds.), Settlers in Contested Lands: Territorial Disputes and Ethnic Conflicts, Stanford University Press 2015 pp.
Irrealism is a term that has been used by various writers in the fields of philosophy, literature, and art to denote specific modes of unreality and/or the problems in concretely defining reality.  While in philosophy the term specifically refers to a position put forward by the American philosopher Nelson Goodman, in literature and art it refers to a variety of writers and movements.
&quot;You have two cows&quot; refers to a form of political satire involving variations of a scenario, where what occurs to the eponymous cows is used to demonstrate how certain political systems function.
thumb|right|150px|An [[Edison screw lightbulb]]
ISO 9660 is a file system standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) for optical disc media.
Ice skating is the act of moving on ice by using ice skates. It can be done for a variety of reasons, including exercise, leisure, traveling and various sports.
}}
An integrated circuit or monolithic integrated circuit (also referred to as an IC, a chip, or a microchip) is a set of electronic circuits on one small flat piece (or &quot;chip&quot;) of semiconductor material, normally silicon.  The integration of large numbers of tiny transistors into a small chip results in circuits that are orders of magnitude smaller, cheaper, and faster than those constructed of discrete electronic components.
The IBM 3270 is a class of block oriented computer terminal (sometimes called display devices) introduced by IBM in 1971 normally used to communicate with IBM mainframes. The 3270 was the successor to the IBM 2260 display terminal.
ICD may refer to:
Islamic Jihad may refer to:
Intel's i486SX was a modified Intel 486DX microprocessor with its floating-point unit (FPU) disabled. It was intended as a lower-cost CPU for use in low-end systems.
Ivory is a hard, white material from the tusks (traditionally elephant's) and teeth of animals, that can be used in art or manufacturing. It consists mainly of dentine (inorganic formula Ca10(PO4)6(CO3)·H2O)), one of the physical structures of teeth and tusks.
An infantry fighting vehicle (IFV), or infantry combat vehicle (ICV), is a type of armoured fighting vehicle used to carry infantry into battle and provide direct fire support. According to the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, an infantry fighting vehicle is &quot;an armoured combat vehicle which is designed and equipped primarily to transport a combat infantry squad, and which is armed with an integral or organic cannon of at least millimeters calibre and sometimes an antitank missile launcher&quot;.
thumb|340x340px|[[Claude Monet, Impression, soleil levant (Impression, Sunrise), 1872, oil on canvas, Musée Marmottan Monet, Paris. This painting became the source of the movement's name, after Louis Leroy's article [of the Impressionists|The Exhibition of the Impressionists] satirically implied that the painting was at most, a sketch.
Internet slang (Internet shorthand, cyber-slang, netspeak, or chatspeak) refers to a variety of slang languages used by different people on the Internet. An example of Internet slang is &quot;LOL&quot; meaning &quot;laugh out loud&quot;.
Impi is a Zulu word for any armed body of men. However, in English it is often used to refer to a Zulu regiment, which is called an ibutho in Zulu.
The mythology of pre-Christian Ireland did not entirely survive the conversion to Christianity. However, much of it was preserved in medieval Irish literature, though it was shorn of its religious meanings.
Blackjack||}}
in political science, intergovernmentalism treats states, and national governments in particular, as the primary actors in the integration process. Intergovernmentalist approaches claim to be able to explain both periods of radical change in the European Union because of converging governmental preferences and periods of inertia because of diverging national interests.
Individualism is the moral stance, political philosophy, ideology, or social outlook that emphasizes the moral worth of the individual.&quot;Individualism&quot; on Encyclopædia Britannica OnlineEllen Meiksins Wood.
Studies that are in vivo (Latin for &quot;within the living&quot;; often not italicized in English) are those in which the effects of various biological entities are tested on whole, living organisms or cells, usually  animals, including humans, and plants as opposed to a tissue extract or dead organism. This is not to be confused with experiments done in vitro (&quot;within the glass&quot;), i.
In vitro (meaning: in the glass) studies are performed with microorganisms, cells, or biological molecules outside their normal biological context.  Colloquially called &quot;test-tube experiments&quot;, these studies in biology and its subdisciplines are traditionally done in labware such as test tubes, flasks, Petri dishes, and microtiter plates.
IEEE 754-1985 was an industry standard for representing floating-point numbers in computers, officially adopted in 1985 and superseded in 2008 by IEEE 754-2008. During its 23 years, it was the most widely used format for floating-point computation.
The Intel 80186, also known as the iAPX 186, or just 186, is a microprocessor and microcontroller introduced in 1982. It was based on the Intel 8086 and, like it, had a 16-bit external data bus multiplexed with a 20-bit address bus.
The Inquisition was a group of institutions within the government system of the Catholic Church whose aim was to combat heresy. It started in 12th-century France to combat religious sectarianism, in particular the Cathars and the Waldensians.
According to the biblical Book of Genesis, Isaac (; ; , ) was the son of Abraham and Sarah and father of Jacob; his name means &quot;he laughs&quot;, reflecting Sarah's response when told that she would have a child. He was one of the three patriarchs of the Israelites, the only one whose name was not changed, and the only one who did not move out of Canaan.
Iduna can mean several things:
Indic may refer to:
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is an international organization.
Interdisciplinarity involves the combining of two or more academic disciplines into one activity (e.g.
thumb|The 2000 Ig Nobel Prize in physics was awarded to [[Andre Geim, Radboud University, Nijmegen, and Michael Berry, University of Bristol, for the magnetic levitation of a live frog.]]
The ITU Radiocommunication Sector (ITU-R) is one of the three sectors (divisions or units) of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and is responsible for radio communication.
)
}}
The Intel 80188 microprocessor was a variant of the Intel 80186. The 80188 had an 8-bit external data bus instead of the 16-bit bus of the 80186; this made it less expensive to connect to peripherals.
IEEE 802.2 is the original name of the ISO/IEC 8802-2 standard which defines Logical Link Control (LLC) as the upper portion of the data link layer of the OSI Model.
Invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column (commonly known as a backbone or spine), derived from the notochord. This includes all animals apart from the subphylum Vertebrata.
}}
The Inuit languages are a closely related group of indigenous American languages traditionally spoken across the North American Arctic and to some extent in the subarctic in Labrador. The related Yupik languages are spoken in western and southern Alaska and in the far east of Russia, but are severely endangered in Russia today and spoken only in a few villages on the Chukchi Peninsula.
Muhammad Ibn Battuta or  (; ); February 25, 13041368 or 1369), fully  (), was a Moroccan scholar who widely travelled the medieval world. After outlining the extensive route of Ibn Battuta's Journey, Nehru notes: &quot;This is a record of travel which is rare enough today with our many conveniences....
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) is a set of communication standards for simultaneous digital transmission of voice, video, data, and other network services over the traditional circuits of the public switched telephone network. It was first defined in 1988 in the CCITT red book.
Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic phenomenon that causes genes to be expressed in a parent-of-origin-specific manner.   Forms of genomic imprinting have been demonstrated in fungi, plants and animals.
In computational mathematics, an iterative method is a mathematical procedure that generates a sequence of improving approximate solutions  for a class of problems, in which the n-th approximation is derived from the previous ones. A specific implementation of an iterative method, including the termination criteria, is an algorithm of the iterative method.
International judicial institutions can be divided into courts, arbitral tribunals and quasi-judicial institutions. Courts are permanent bodies, with near the same composition for each case.
The International Prize Court was an international court proposed at the beginning of the 20th century, to hear prize cases. An international agreement to create it, the Convention Relative to the Creation of an International Prize Court, was made at the Hague conference of 1907.
Imam (;  , plural:  ) is the name of an Islamic leadership position. It is most commonly used as the title of a worship leader of a mosque and Muslim community among Sunni Muslims.
}}
square
The Islands of the Firth of Clyde are the fifth largest of the major Scottish island groups after the Inner and Outer Hebrides, Orkney and Shetland. They are situated in the Firth of Clyde between Ayrshire and Argyll and Bute.
The International Bank Account Number (IBAN) is an internationally agreed system of identifying bank accounts across national borders to facilitate the communication and processing of cross border transactions with a reduced risk of transcription errors. It was originally adopted by the European Committee for Banking Standards (ECBS), and later as an international standard under ISO 13616:1997.
Infinitive (abbreviated ) is a grammatical term referring to certain verb forms existing in many languages, most often used as non-finite verbs. As with many linguistic concepts, there is not a single definition applicable to all languages.
IONA (Islands of the North Atlantic) is an acronym suggested in 1980 by Sir John Biggs-Davison to refer to a loose linkage of  England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, the Isle of Man and Channel Islands, similar to the present day British-Irish Council.  Its intended purpose was as a more politically acceptable alternative to British Isles, which is disliked by many people in Ireland.
The IntelDX4 is a clock-tripled i486 microprocessor with 16 kB L1 cache. Intel named it DX4 (rather than DX3) as a consequence of litigation with AMD over trademarks.
Iapetus  may refer to:
The Interactive Fiction Competition (also known as IFComp) is one of several annual competitions for works of interactive fiction. It has been held since 1995.
Immunity may refer to:
Inquests in England and Wales are held into sudden and unexplained deaths and also into the circumstances of discovery of a certain class of valuable artefacts known as &quot;treasure trove&quot;. In England and Wales inquests are the responsibility of a coroner, who operates under the jurisdiction of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009.
Index may refer to:
Information retrieval (IR) is the activity of obtaining information resources relevant to an information need from a collection of information resources.  Searches can be based on full-text or other content-based indexing.
List of poets who wrote in Italian (or Italian dialects):
ISO 216 specifies international standard (ISO) paper sizes used in most countries in the world today, although not in Canada, the United States, Mexico, or the Dominican Republic. The standard defines the &quot;A&quot; and &quot;B&quot; series of paper sizes, including A4, the most commonly available size.
ISO 3864 specifies international standards for safety symbols. These labels are graphical, to overcome language barriers.
Isaac Abendana (ca. 1640 – 1699) was the younger brother of Jacob Abendana, and became hakam of the Spanish Portuguese Synagogue in London after his brother died.
This is a list of intelligence agencies. It includes only currently operational institutions.
The industrial, scientific and medical (ISM) radio bands are radio bands (portions of the radio spectrum) reserved internationally for the use of radio frequency (RF) energy for industrial, scientific and medical purposes other than telecommunications.
In mathematics, a series is, roughly speaking, a description of the operation of adding infinitely many quantities, one after the other, to a given starting quantity.  The study of series is a major part of calculus and its generalization, mathematical analysis.
Interruption}}
Intercalation or embolism in timekeeping is the insertion of a leap day, week, or month into some calendar years to make the calendar follow the seasons or moon phases. Lunisolar calendars may require intercalations of both days and months.
Intercourse may refer to:
Ink is a liquid or paste that contains pigments or dyes and is used to color a surface to produce an image, text, or design. Ink is used for drawing or writing with a pen, brush, or quill.
}}
Intelligent design (ID) is a  religious argument for the existence of God. Presented by its proponents as &quot;an evidence-based scientific theory about life's origins&quot;,Numbers 2006, p.
thumb|upright=1.3|Schematic diagram of an ion channel.
IDE, iDE, or Ide may refer to:
IDE}}
(F255)1982 Japan (¥49800)http://www.videogameconsolelibrary.
Imperialism is an action that involves a country (usually an empire or a kingdom) extending its power by the acquisition of territories. It may also include the exploitation of these territories, an action that is linked to colonialism.
Internet Protocol version 4 (IPv4) is the fourth version of the Internet Protocol (IP). It is one of the core protocols of standards-based internetworking methods in the Internet, and was the first version deployed for production in the ARPANET in 1983.
Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) is the most recent version of the Internet Protocol (IP), the communications protocol that provides an identification and location system for computers on networks and routes traffic across the Internet. IPv6 was developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) to deal with the long-anticipated problem of IPv4 address exhaustion.
The Inca Empire was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America.
The Internet Protocol (IP) is the principal communications protocol in the Internet protocol suite for relaying datagrams across network boundaries. Its routing function enables internetworking, and essentially establishes the Internet.
Impeachment is the process by which a legislative body formally levels charges against a high official of government. Impeachment does not necessarily mean removal from office; it is only a formal statement of charges, akin to an indictment in criminal law, and is thus only the first step towards removal.
The Ibizan Hound (, ) is a lean, agile dog of the hound family. There are two hair types of the breed: smooth and wire.
The Irish Wolfhound (, ) is a breed of domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris), specifically a very large sighthound from Ireland. The name originates from its purposewolf hunting with dogsrather than from its appearance.
The Italian Greyhound (in Italian: Piccolo Levriero Italiano) is a small breed of dog of the sighthound type, sometimes called an &quot;I.G.
Isaac Klein (September 5, 1905 – 1979) was a prominent rabbi and halakhic authority within Conservative Judaism.
An intron is any nucleotide sequence within a gene that is removed by RNA splicing during maturation of the final RNA product. The term intron refers to both the DNA sequence within a gene and the corresponding sequence in RNA transcripts.
IEE may stand for:
230pxIPN headquarters at 7 Wołoska Street in Warsaw
Intelligence is one or more capacities of the mind.
}}
ICI or Ici may refer to:
Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) was a British chemical company and was, for much of its history, the largest manufacturer in Britain.
The insanity defense, also known as the mental disorder defense, is a defense by excuse in a criminal case, arguing that the defendant is not responsible for their actions due to an episodic or persistent psychiatric disease at the time of the criminal act. This is contrasted with an excuse of provocation, in which defendant is responsible, but the responsibility is lessened due to a temporary mental state.
An ice age is a period of long-term reduction in the temperature of Earth's surface and atmosphere, resulting in the presence or expansion of continental and polar ice sheets and alpine glaciers. Within a long-term ice age, individual pulses of cold climate are termed &quot;glacial periods&quot; (or alternatively &quot;glacials&quot; or &quot;glaciations&quot; or colloquially as &quot;ice age&quot;), and intermittent warm periods are called &quot;interglacials&quot;.
thumb|right|200px|Logo of the International Association of Travel Agents Network.
Insider trading is the trading of a public company's stock or other securities (such as bonds or stock options) by individuals with access to nonpublic information about the company. In various countries, some kinds of trading based on insider information is illegal.
Communist International&lt;BR&gt; Second Spanish Republic&lt;BR&gt;
Iron Duke may refer to:
Food irradiation is the process of exposing foodstuffs to ionizing radiation. Ionizing radiation is energy that can be transmitted without direct contact to the source of the energy (radiation) capable of freeing electrons from their atomic bonds (ionization) in the targeted food.
NATO Integrated Air Defense System (short: NATINADS) is according to the German army regulation  100/900 defined as – «A command and control compound (structure or system) of the alliance´s air defence forces, subordinated to the NATO command authorities, already in peace time as well as in crisis and war».
The invisible balance or balance of trade on services is that part of the balance of trade that refers to services and other products that do not result in the transfer of physical objects. Examples include consulting services, shipping services, tourism, and patent license revenues.
Irreducible complexity (IC) is the argument that certain biological systems cannot evolve by successive small modifications to pre-existing functional systems through natural selection. Irreducible complexity is central to the creationist concept of intelligent design, but it is rejected by the scientific community,&quot;We therefore find that Professor Behe's claim for irreducible complexity has been refuted in peer-reviewed research papers and has been rejected by the scientific community at large.
Religion in pre-Islamic Arabia was a mix of polytheism, Christianity, Judaism, and Iranian religions. Arab polytheism, the dominant form of religion in pre-Islamic Arabia, was based on veneration of deities and other rituals.
Imperial Conferences (Colonial Conferences before 1907) were periodic gatherings of government leaders from the self-governing colonies and dominions of the British Empire between 1887 and 1937, before the establishment of regular Meetings of Commonwealth Prime Ministers in 1944. They were held in 1887, 1894, 1897, 1902, 1907, 1911, 1921, 1923, 1926, 1930, 1932 and 1937.
IRO may refer to:
International standards are standards developed by international standards organizations. International standards are available for consideration and use worldwide.
right|thumb|An [[airline ticket showing the price in the ISO 4217 code &quot;EUR&quot; (bottom left) and not the currency sign €]]
}}
Infrared spectroscopy (IR spectroscopy or vibrational spectroscopy) involves the interaction of infrared radiation with matter. It covers a range of techniques, mostly based on absorption spectroscopy.
Irenaeus (; Greek: ) (early 2nd century – died c. AD 202), also referred to as Saint Irenaeus, was Bishop of Lugdunum in Gaul, then a part of the Roman Empire (now Lyon, France).
Involuntary commitment or civil commitment (also known informally as sectioning or being sectionedhttp://www.rcpsych.
Intermolecular forces (IMFs) are the forces which mediate interaction between molecules, including forces of attraction or repulsion which act between molecules and other types of neighboring particles, e.g.
IRQ may refer to:
This list of Internet top-level domain extensions contains top-level domains, which are those domains in the DNS root zone of the Domain Name System of the Internet. The official list of all top-level domains is maintained by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) at the Root Zone Database IANA also oversees the approval process for new proposed top-level domains.
In philosophy, idealism is the group of philosophies which assert that reality, or reality as we can know it, is fundamentally mental, mentally constructed, or otherwise immaterial. Epistemologically, idealism manifests as a skepticism about the possibility of knowing any mind-independent thing.
Inheritance is the practice of passing on property, titles, debts, rights, and obligations upon the death of an individual. The rules of inheritance differ between societies and have changed over time.
Ignatius of Antioch (ancient Greek: Ἰγνάτιος Ἀντιοχείας, Ignátios Antiokheías) (c. 35  – c.
The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) allocates call sign prefixes for radio and television stations of all types. They also form the basis for, but do not exactly match, aircraft registration identifiers.
The keyboards for IBM PC compatible computers are standardized. However, during the more than 30 years of PC architecture being constantly updated, multiple types of keyboard layout variations have been developed.
Giulio Cesare was one of three  dreadnought battleships built for the Royal Italian Navy (Regia Marina) in the 1910s. She served in both World Wars, although she was little used and saw no combat during the former.
INS Vikrant (for courageous) was a  of the Indian Navy. The ship was laid down as HMS Hercules for the British Royal Navy during World War II, but construction was put on hold when the war ended.
}}
Information entropy is defined as the average amount of information produced by a probabilistic stochastic source of data.
Differential psychology studies the ways in which individuals differ in their behavior and the processes that underlie it. This is distinguished from other aspects of psychology in that although psychology is ostensibly a study of individuals, modern psychologists often study groups, or attempt to discover general psychological processes that apply to all individuals.
Industrial and organizational psychology (I/O psychology), which is also known as occupational psychology, organizational psychology, and work and organizational psychology, is an applied discipline within psychology. I/O psychology is the science of human behaviour relating to work and applies psychological theories and principles to organizations and individuals in their places of work as well as the individual's work-life more generally.
Itanium ( ) is a family of 64-bit Intel microprocessors that implement the Intel Itanium architecture (formerly called IA-64). Intel markets the processors for enterprise servers and high-performance computing systems.
The International Classification of Diseases (ICD) is the international &quot;standard diagnostic tool for epidemiology, health management and clinical purposes&quot;. Its full official name is International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems.
In mathematics, and specifically in abstract algebra, an integral domain is a nonzero commutative ring in which the product of any two nonzero elements is nonzero.Bourbaki, p.
An infundibulum (Latin for funnel; plural, infundibula) is a funnel-shaped cavity or organ.
In computing, interrupt latency is the time that elapses from when an interrupt is generated to when the source of the interrupt is serviced. For many operating systems, devices are serviced as soon as the device's interrupt handler is executed.
LGBT in Islam is influenced by the religious, legal, social, and cultural history of the nations with a sizable Muslim population, along with specific passages in the Quran and hadith, statements attributed to the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
Infanticide (or infant homicide) is the intentional killing of infants.
The Internet protocol suite is the conceptual model and set of communications protocols used on the Internet and similar computer networks. It is commonly known as TCP/IP because the original protocols in the suite are the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the Internet Protocol (IP).
Ibn al-Shaykh al-Libi (; ALFB transliteration: Ḁbnʋ ălŞɑỉƈ alLibi; born Ali Mohamed Abdul Aziz al-Fakheri, 1963 – May 10, 2009) was a Libyan national captured in Afghanistan in November 2001 after the fall of the Taliban; he was interrogated by the American and Egyptian forces. The information he gave under torture to Egyptian authorities was cited by the George W.
IDF or idf may refer to:
(ICRC) (IFRC) (idea was in 1859)
(93%)
In number theory, integer factorization is the decomposition of a composite number into a product of smaller integers. If these integers are further restricted to prime numbers, the process is called prime factorization.
thumb|upright=1.2|The former Weights and Measures office in [[Seven Sisters, London (590 Seven Sisters Road).
The incompatible-properties argument is the idea that no description of God is consistent with reality.  For example, if one takes the definition of God to be described fully from the Bible, then the claims of what properties God has described therein might be argued to lead to a contradiction.
The International Society of Olympic Historians (ISOH) is a non-profit organization founded in 1991 with the purpose of promoting and studying the Olympic Movement and the Olympic Games. The majority of recent books on the Olympic Games have been written by ISOH members.
Serie A (), also called Serie A TIM due to sponsorship by TIM, is a professional league competition for football clubs located at the top of the Italian football league system and the winner is awarded the Coppa Campioni d'Italia. It has been operating for over eighty years since the 1929–30 season.
.1, ,
Iceman (Robert Louis &quot;Bobby&quot; Drake) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics and is a founding member of the X-Men. Created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby, the character first appeared in The X-Men #1 (September 1963).
Saint Isidore of Seville (; c. 560 – 4 April 636), a scholar and, for over three decades, Archbishop of Seville, is widely regarded as the last of the Fathers of the Church, as the 19th-century historian Montalembert put it in an oft-quoted phrase, &quot;The last scholar of the ancient world.
Compounds of carbon are defined as chemical substances containing carbon.Organic Chemistry by Abraham William SimpsonEncyclopedia of Inorganic Chemistry Bruce King Ed.
Industrial espionage, economic espionage, corporate spying or corporate espionage is a form of espionage conducted for commercial purposes instead of purely national security.  Economic espionage is conducted or orchestrated by governments and is international in scope, while industrial or corporate espionage is more often national and occurs between companies or corporations.
}}
ITSO may stand for:
Indian numerals are the symbols representing numbers in India. These numerals are generally used in the context of the decimal Hindu–Arabic numeral system, and are distinct from, though related by descent to Arabic numerals.
Isaac Stern (; Isaak Solomonovich Shtern; 21 July 1920 – 22 September 2001) was a Ukrainian-born American violinist and conductor.
In mathematics, an integral assigns numbers to functions in a way that can describe displacement, area, volume, and other concepts that arise by combining infinitesimal data. Integration is one of the two main operations of calculus, with its inverse, differentiation, being the other.
thumb|200px|Aftermath of the [[King David Hotel bombing, 1946]]
An airport is an aerodrome with facilities for flights to take off and land. Airports often have facilities to store and maintain aircraft, and a control tower.
thumb|250px|An ion implantation system at [[Laboratory for analysis and architecture of systems|LAAS technological facility in Toulouse, France.]]
John Ford (1894–1973) was an American film director who won four Academy Awards.
Japan is an island nation in East Asia comprising a stratovolcanic archipelago extending along the continent's Pacific coast. It lies between 24° to 46° north latitude and from 123° to 146° east longitude.
thumb|450px|Japanese birth and death rates since 1950. The drop in 1966 was due to it being a &quot;[[hinoe uma&quot; year which is viewed as a bad omen by the Japanese Zodiac.
The politics of Japan is conducted in a framework of a multi-party bicameral parliamentary representative democratic constitutional monarchy whereby the Emperor acts as the ceremonial head of state, and the Prime Minister is the head of government and the head of the Cabinet, which directs the executive branch.
Japan currently possesses one of the most advanced communication networks in the world.
Transportation in Japan is modern and highly developed. Japan's transportation sector stands out for its energy efficiency: it uses less energy per person compared to other countries, thanks to a high share of rail transportation and low overall travel distances.
The  is handled by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan.
Carl Gustav Jung (1875–1961) was the founder of analytical psychology.
JFK are the initials of John F. Kennedy (1917–1963), the 35th President of the United States.
James AugustineThe second name was mistakenly registered as &quot;Augusta&quot;. Joyce was actually named and baptised James Augustine Joyce, for his paternal grandfather, Costello (1992) p.
}}Nihongo
The Simon-Ehrlich Wager describes a 1980 scientific wager between business professor Julian L. Simon and biologist Paul Ehrlich, betting on a mutually agreed-upon measure of resource scarcity over the decade leading up to 1990.
Judaism (originally from Hebrew , Yehudah, &quot;Judah&quot;; via Latin and Greek) is an ancient monotheistic Abrahamic religion with the Torah as its foundational text. It encompasses the religion, philosophy and culture of the Jewish people.
border
The expression junk science is used to describe scientific data, research, or analysis considered by the person using the phrase to be [or fraud]ulent. The concept is often invoked in political and legal contexts where facts and scientific results have a great amount of weight in making a determination.
Java is an island of Indonesia.
, National Maritime Museum, Greenwich
John Baskerville (28 January 1706 – 8 January 1775) was an English businessman, in areas including japanning and papier-mâché, but he is best remembered as a printer and type designer.
John Young may refer to:
Jan}}
.}}
}}}}}
The Jurassic (; from Jura Mountains) was a geologic period and system that spanned 56 million years from the end of the Triassic Period  million years ago (Mya) to the beginning of the Cretaceous Period  Mya. Víctor Ramos, one of the authors of the study proposing the 140 Ma boundary age, sees the study as a &quot;first step&quot; toward formally changing the age in the International Union of Geological Sciences.
The island of Jamaica was colonized by the Taino tribes prior to the arrival of Columbus in 1494.  The Spanish enslaved the Tainos, who were so ravaged by their conflict with the Europeans and by foreign diseases that nearly the entire native population was extinct by 1600.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Jamaica, including population density, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics in Jamaica takes place in the framework of a representative parliamentary democratic constitutional monarchy. The 1962 Constitution of Jamaica established a parliamentary system whose political and legal traditions closely follow those of the United Kingdom.
Telecommunications in Jamaica include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Jamaica consists of roadways, railways, ship and air transport,  with roadways forming the backbone of the island's internal transport  system.
Jamaica has diplomatic relations with most nations and is a member of the United Nations and the Organization of American States. Jamaica chairs the Working Group on smaller Economies.
Since the late 1990s, the Jamaican government has set an agenda to push the development of technology in Jamaica. The goal is to make Jamaica a significant player in the arena of information technology.
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Jersey, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Bailiwick of Jersey takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic constitution.
The telecommunications in Jersey relate to communication systems in Bailiwick of Jersey, which is a British Crown Dependency off the coast of Normandy, France.
This article details the variety of means of transport in Jersey, Channel Islands.
Jordan is situated geographically in Southwest Asia, south of Syria, west of Iraq, northwest of Saudi Arabia and east of Israel and the West Bank; politically, the area has also been referred to in the West as the Middle or Near East. The territory of Jordan now covers about .
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Jordan, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Jordan takes place in a framework of a parliamentary monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Jordan is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Jordan is a constitutional monarchy based on the constitution promulgated on January 8, 1952.
Jordan has a highly developed communications infrastructure. Jordan's telecom infrastructure is growing at a very rapid pace and continually being updated and expanded.
With the exception of a railway system, Jordan has a developed public and private transportation system. There are three international airports in Jordan.
The foreign relations of Jordan have consistently followed a pro-Western foreign policy and traditionally Jordan has had close relations with the United States and the United Kingdom. These relations were damaged when Jordan proclaimed its neutrality during the Gulf War and maintained relations with Iraq.
Juan de Nova Island (French: Île Juan da Nova (official), Île Juan de Nova (local)), also known as Saint-Christophe, is a French  low, flat, tropical island in the narrowest part of the Mozambique Channel, about one-third of the way between Madagascar and Mozambique. Anchorage is possible off the northeast of the island which also has a  airstrip.
Jewellery (British English) or jewelry (American English)see American and British spelling differences consists of small decorative items worn for personal adornment, such as brooches, rings, necklaces, earrings, pendants and bracelets.  Jewellery may be attached to the body or the clothes, and the term is restricted to durable ornaments, excluding flowers for example.
thumb| Jan Berglin in 2011.
1400
Jacques Mayol (1 April 1927 – 22 December 2001) was a French diving legend and the holder of many world records in free diving. The 1988 film The Big Blue, directed by Luc Besson was inspired by his life story and that of his friend, Enzo Maiorca.
Josef Antonius Heinrich Terboven (23 May 1898 – 8 May 1945) was a Nazi leader, best known as the Reichskommissar for Norway during the German occupation of Norway and the Quisling regime.
Joyce K. Reynolds (died 2015) was an American computer scientist.
Julmust ( &quot;Yule&quot; and  &quot;not yet fermented juice of fruit or berries&quot;, though there is no such juice in julmust) is a soft drink that is mainly consumed in Sweden around Christmas. During the rest of the year it is usually quite difficult to find in stores, but sometimes it is sold at other times of the year under the name must.
Jackson may refer to:
Ethan Cohen}}
June is the sixth month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian calendars and the second month to have the length of 30 days. June contains the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere, the day with the most daylight hours, and the winter solstice in the Southern Hemisphere, the day with the fewest daylight hours (excluding polar regions in both cases).
July is the seventh month of the year (between June and August) in the Julian and Gregorian Calendars and the fourth month to have the length of 31 days. It was named by the Roman Senate in honour of Roman general Julius Cæsar, it being the month of his birth.
January 1 is the first day of the year in the Gregorian Calendar. There are 364 days remaining until the end of the year (365 in leap years).
==Events==
Perihelion, the point during the year when the Earth is closest to the Sun, occurs around this date.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
In common years it is always in ISO week 26. This date is the only date each year where both the month and day are different perfect numbers, June 6 being the only date where the month and day are the same perfect number.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
In the Northern Hemisphere, the Summer solstice sometimes occurs on this date, while the Winter solstice occurs in the Southern Hemisphere.
This day usually marks the summer solstice in the Northern Hemisphere and the winter solstice in the Southern Hemisphere, which is the day of the year with the most hours of daylight in the Northern Hemisphere and the fewest hours of daylight in the Southern Hemisphere.
==Events==
In the 1920 federal census, series T625, Roll 895, p. 235, in the city of Tutwiler, Tallahatchie County, Mississippi, Supervisor's District 2, Enumeration District 87, Sheet #29 A, line 25, enumerated February 3, 1920, John Hooker is one of nine children living with William and Minnie Hooker.
==Events==
The Satires are a collection of satirical poems by the Latin author Juvenal written in the late 1st and early 2nd centuries AD.
==Events==
It is the last day of the first half of the year.
The end of this day marks the halfway point of a leap year. It also falls on the same day of the week as New Year's Day in a leap year.
==Events==
This day is the midpoint of a common year because there are 182 days before and 182 days after it in common years, and 183 before and 182 after in leap years. The exact time of the middle of the year is at noon.
==Events==
==Events==
The Aphelion, the point in the year when the Earth is farthest from the Sun, occurs around this date.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
On this day the Summer solstice may occur in the Northern Hemisphere, and the Winter solstice may occur in the Southern Hemisphere.
==Events==
==Events==
The terms 7th July, July 7th, and 7/7 (pronounced &quot;Seven-seven&quot;) have been widely used in the Western media as a shorthand for the 7 July 2005 bombings on London's transport system. In the Chinese language, this term is used to denote the Battle of Lugou Bridge started on July 7, 1937, marking the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Jason (;  Iásōn) was an ancient Greek mythological hero who was the leader of the Argonauts whose quest for the Golden Fleece featured in Greek literature. He was the son of Aeson, the rightful king of Iolcos.
==Events==
Judah the Prince (, Yehudah HaNasi or Judah HaNasi) or Judah I, also known as Rabbi () or Rabbenu HaQadosh (, &quot;our Master, the holy one&quot;), was a second-century rabbi and chief redactor and editor of the Mishnah. He was a key leader of the Jewish community during the Roman occupation of Judea.
==Events==
}}
&quot;Jabberwocky&quot; is a nonsense poem written by Lewis Carroll about the killing of a creature named &quot;the Jabberwock&quot;. It was included in his 1871 novel Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There, the sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Johann Sebastian Bach composed cantatas, motets, masses, Magnificats, Passions, oratorios, four-part chorales, songs and arias. His instrumental music includes concertos, suites, sonatas, fugues, and other works for organ, harpsichord, lute, violin, cello, flute, chamber ensemble and orchestra.
==Events==
1865
==Events==
==Events==
Jacobite}}
Journalism is the production and distribution of reports on the interaction of events, facts, ideas, and people that are the &quot;news of the day&quot; and that impacts society to at least some degree. The word applies to the occupation (professional or not), the methods of gathering information, and the organizing literary styles.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
right|thumb|Simulation of a low-bypass turbofan's airflow
==Events==
None Elbridge Gerry None
==Events==
Journal of the Travellers Aid Society is a role-playing game magazine devoted to Traveller, commonly abbreviated JTAS.
Jötunheimr (or Jǫtunheimr in Old Norse orthography; often anglicized as Jotunheim) is the homeland of the Jötnar, the giants in Norse mythology.
Johann Friedrich Agricola (4 January 1720 – 2 December 1774) was a German composer, organist, singer, pedagogue, and writer on music. He sometimes wrote under the pseudonym Flavio Anicio Olibrio.
(age 70)
Jakob Abbadie (; 25 September 1727),Henry Cotton. Fasti Ecclesiae Hibernicae: The succession of the prelates and members of the cathedral bodies in Ireland, Volume I, Hodges &amp; Smith, 1851.
==Events==
thumb|Johannes Agricola
==Events==
thumb|right|Johann Georg Albrechtsberger portrait by [[Leopold Kupelwieser]]
thumb|right|290px|Mayflower in Plymouth Harbor by [[William Halsall (1882)]]
Japanese cuisine encompasses the regional and traditional foods of Japan, which have developed through centuries of social and economic changes. The  is based on rice with miso soup and other dishes; there is an emphasis on seasonal ingredients.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Johann Heinrich Alsted (March 1588 – November 9, 1638), &quot;the true parent of all the Encyclopædias&quot;,[of Paradoxes/O]. was a German Calvinist minister and academic, known for his varied interests: in Ramism and Lullism, pedagogy and encyclopedias, theology and millenarianism.
==Events==
Jean-Jacques Ampère (12 August 1800 – 27 March 1864) was a French philologist and man of letters.
Jacob ben Abba Mari ben Simson Anatoli (c. 1194 – 1256) was a translator of Arabic texts to Hebrew.
, , , ,
right|thumb|Joseph Severn (self-portrait)
==Events==
Jetsprint or sprint boat racing is a form of racing sport in which jetboats, with a crew of two, race individually against the clock through a twisting series of channels in less than a metre of water.
Jainism (), traditionally known as Jain Dharma, is one of the most ancient Indian religions. Followers of Jainism are called &quot;Jains&quot;, a word derived from the Sanskrit word jina (victor) and connoting the path of victory in crossing over life's stream of rebirths through an ethical and spiritual life.
==Events==
January 16 is the 16th day of the year in the Gregorian Calendar. There are 349 days remaining until the end of the year (350 in leap years).
Juno may refer to:
In the ancient astronomy, it is the cusp day between Capricorn and Aquarius.
}}
thumb|right|The [[elongated square gyrobicupola (J37), a Johnson solid]]
The extant manuscripts of the writings of the 1st-century Romano-Jewish historian Flavius Josephus include references to Jesus and the origins of Christianity.
==Events==
Japanese may refer to:
==Events==
==Events==
thumb|right|German javelin thrower [[Stephan Steding during the 2007 IAAF World Championships in Osaka, Japan.]]
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Jan Karon is an American novelist who writes for both adults and young readers. She is the author of the New York Times-bestselling Mitford novels, featuring Father Timothy Kavanagh, an Episcopal priest, and the fictional village of Mitford.
Joseph HaydnSee Haydn's name. Haydn was baptized &quot;Franciscus Josephus&quot; (Franz Joseph), but &quot;Franz&quot; was not used during Haydn's lifetime and is avoided by scholars today (&quot;Haydn, Joseph&quot; by James Webster in Grove Music Online, accessed 18 January 2007).
==Events==
Joseph is a masculine given name.
Jacob (; |Jaʕăqob|&quot;heel&quot;}};   ), later given the name Israel, is regarded as a Patriarch of the Israelites. According to the Book of Genesis, Jacob was the third Hebrew progenitor with whom God made a covenant.
Jehoshaphat (; alternatively spelled Jehosaphat, Josaphat, or Yehoshafat; ; ; ) is a Biblical name which refers to several characters in the Hebrew Bible:  The first, Jehoshaphat the Recorder, son of Ahilud, is a scribe who first appears in 2 Samuel.  Jehoshaphat, son of Paruah, in Issachar, appears in 1 Kings 4:17.
Jehu (; , meaning &quot;Yahu is He&quot;; ; ) was the tenth king of the northern Kingdom of Israel (Samaria) since Jeroboam I, noted for exterminating the house of Ahab at the instruction of Jehovah.Meaning of Jehu - History and Origin – Meaning of &quot;Jehu&quot;, Hebrew name, Meaning-of-Names.
&quot;Ὁ Ἅγιος Ἰησοῦς ὁ Δίκαιος&quot;. Megas Synaxaristis.
Jeremiah (c. 655–586 BCE), one of the major prophets of the Hebrew Bible
910 BCE
Kokkinos, The Herodian Dynasty, pp. 268, 277.
Jehoram (meaning &quot;Jehovah is exalted&quot; in Biblical Hebrew) was the name of several individuals in the Tanakh. The female version of this name is Athaliah.
John Brunner}}
The term jazz guitar may refer to either a type of guitar or to the variety of guitar playing styles used in the various genres which are commonly termed &quot;jazz&quot;. The jazz-type guitar was born as a result of using electric amplification to increase the volume of conventional acoustic guitars.
John Locke  (; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704) was an English philosopher and physician, widely regarded as one of the most influential of Enlightenment thinkers and commonly known as the &quot;Father of Liberalism&quot;.Hirschmann, Nancy J.
thumb|[[Jacob's Ladder (c.1800) by William Blake, held at the British Museum, London.
The Jutes (), Iuti, or Iutæ were a Germanic people. According to Bede,The Saxon Invasion British Isles – past and present.
Jewish prayer (, tefillah ; plural , tefillot ; Yiddish תּפֿלה tfile , plural תּפֿלות tfilles ; Yinglish: davening  from Yiddish דאַוון daven ‘pray’) are the prayer recitations and Jewish meditation traditions that form part of the observance of Rabbinic Judaism. These prayers, often with instructions and commentary, are found in the siddur, the traditional Jewish prayer book.
Jewish eschatology is the area of theology and philosophy concerned with events that will happen in the end of days and related concepts, according to the Hebrew Bible and Jewish thought. This includes the ingathering of the exiled diaspora, the coming of a Jewish Messiah, afterlife, and the revival of the dead Tzadikim.
__NOTOC__
Jackson County is a county located in the U.S.
==Events==
==Events==
, .
Jackals are medium-sized omnivorous mammals of the genus Canis, which also includes wolves and the domestic dog. While the word &quot;jackal&quot; has historically been used for many small canids, in modern use it most commonly refers to three species: the closely related black-backed jackal and side-striped jackal of sub-Saharan Africa, and the golden jackal of south-central Eurasia, which is more closely related to other members of the genus Canis.
Jumping the broom is a phrase and custom relating to a wedding ceremony where the couple jumps over a broom.
==Events==
In the 20th and 21st centuries the Julian calendar is 13 days behind the Gregorian calendar, thus January 14 is sometimes celebrated as New Year's Day (Old New Year) by religious groups who use the Julian calendar.
JPEG Network Graphics (JNG, ) is a JPEG-based graphics file format which is closely related to PNG: it uses the PNG file structure (with a different signature) as a container format to wrap JPEG-encoded image data.
Elizabeth &quot;Jane&quot; Shore (née Lambert) (c.1445 – c.
==Events==
Jihad (;   ) is an Arabic word which literally means striving or struggling, especially with a praiseworthy aim.What is Islamic philosophy?
A Jacobin () was a member of the Jacobin Club, a revolutionary political movement that was the most famous political club during the French Revolution (1789–99).Tony Judt.
Johann Tobias Krebs (7 July 1690 – 11 February 1762) was a German organist and composer.
Joseph Gurney Cannon (May 7, 1836 – November 12, 1926) was a United States politician from Illinois and leader of the Republican Party.  Cannon served as Speaker of the United States House of Representatives from 1903 to 1911, and many consider him to be the most dominant Speaker in United States history,http://history.
Middle Pleistocene – Recent
Joel or Yoel is a name meaning &quot;Yahweh Is God&quot; and may refer to:
thumb|This portrait of [[Joseph Marie Jacquard|Jacquard was woven in silk on a Jacquard loom and required 24,000 punched cards to create (1839). It was only produced to order.
Jerome David Kern (January 27, 1885 – November 11, 1945) was an American composer of musical theatre and popular music.  One of the most important American theatre composers of the early 20th century, he wrote more than 700 songs, used in over 100 stage works, including such classics as &quot;Ol' Man River&quot;, &quot;Can't Help Lovin' Dat Man&quot;, &quot;A Fine Romance&quot;, &quot;Smoke Gets in Your Eyes&quot;, &quot;All the Things You Are&quot;, &quot;The Way You Look Tonight&quot;, &quot;Long Ago (and Far Away)&quot; and &quot;Who?
right|thumb|200px|Video game joystick elements: 1. stick, 2.
Juan Fernández}}
thumb|200px|The Mediterranean area  550 AD as Jordanes wrote his Getica. The [[Eastern Roman Empire, capital Constantinople, is shown in pink.
Joseph Smith (1805–1844) was an American religious leader and the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, which gave rise to Mormonism.
On November 29, 1983 a memorandum of agreement was set up between Israel and the United States regarding political, military and economic cooperation. Part of the agreement was for a Joint Political Military Group (JPMG) as a high-level planning forum to discuss and implement combined planning, joint exercises, and logistics.
Jug may refer to:
A joke is a display of humour in which words are used within a specific and well-defined narrative structure to make people laugh and is not meant to be taken seriously. It takes the form of a story, usually with dialogue, and ends in a punch line.
Jimmy Stuart (disambiguation)|and|James Stewart (disambiguation)}}
A panoramic view of a section of Jalalabad
There are several people and things named Joliet:
thumb|250px|Johann von Werth, imperial general of cavalry
In physics, jerk, also known as jolt, surge, or lurch, is the rate of change of acceleration; that is, the derivative of acceleration with respect to time, and as such the second derivative of velocity, or the third derivative of position.
}}
Julian (, ;In Classical Latin, Julian's name would be inscribed as FLAVIVS CLAVDIVS IVLIANVS AVGVSTVS. 331/332Tougher, 12, citing Bouffartigue: L'Empereur Julien et la culture de son temps p.
}}
right|thumb|left|250px|Juno Receiving the Head of Argos (1730-32) Oil on canvas, 108 x 72 cm. Moor Park, Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire.
Jacques Callot (; c.1592 – 1635) was a baroque printmaker and draftsman from the Duchy of Lorraine (an independent state on the north-eastern border of France, southwestern border of Germany and overlapping the southern Netherlands).
John DowlandWhile orthographic evidence from Dowland's time strongly suggests a pronunciation of  for the last name, there is no consensus on the correct pronunciation. (1563 – buried 20 February 1626) was an English Renaissance composer, lutenist, and singer.
177072
erg
Jeepster Records is a London, England-based independent record label, founded in 1995, and specialising in British indie and alternative bands, particularly Glasgow-based acts. It is most notable for its signing of Belle and Sebastian and Snow Patrol.
John Chrysostom (; ), c. 349 – 407,The exact date of John's birth is in question, and dates between 344 and 349 are often given, and limits set at 340 and 350 (Kelly 296).
Johannes Brahms (; 7 May 1833 – 3 April 1897) was a German composer and pianist of the Romantic period.http://www.
border
JIC may refer to:
Johann Friedrich Endersch (25 October 1705 – 28 March 1769) was a German cartographer and mathematician. Endersch also held the title of Royal Mathematician to King Augustus III of Poland.
Barlaam and Josaphat () are two legendary Christian martyrs and saints, based ultimately on the life of the Gautama Buddha.John Walbridge The Wisdom of the Mystic East: Suhrawardī and Platonic Orientalism Page 129  – 2001 &quot;The form Būdhīsaf is the original, as shown by Sogdian form Pwtysfi and the early New Persian form Bwdysf.
right|frame|This image was scaled up using [[nearest-neighbor interpolation, and thus the jaggies on the edges of the symbols became more prominent.]]
Judicial economy is the principle that the limited resources of the legal system or a given court should be conserved by the refusal to decide one or more claims raised in a case. For example, the plaintiff may claim that the defendant's actions violated three distinct laws.
Jury instructions are the set of legal rules that jurors ought follow when deciding a case. Jury instructions are given to the jury by the jury instructor, who usually reads them aloud to the jury.
Jurisprudence is the study and theory of law. It includes principles behind law that make the law.
A jury trial, or trial by jury, is a legal proceeding in which a jury makes a decision or findings of fact, which then direct the actions of a judge. It is distinguished from a bench trial in which a judge or panel of judges makes all decisions.
Justice is the legal or philosophical theory by which fairness is administered. Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy|website=www.
Janus is the two-faced Roman god of gates, doors, doorways, beginnings, and endings.
John Brown may refer to:
}}
Johann Philipp Abelin was a  German chronicler whose career straddled the 16th and 17th centuries. He was born, probably, at Strasbourg, and died there between 1634 and 1637.
Jacob Abendana (1630 – 12 September 1685) was hakham of London from 1680 until his death. Jacob was the eldest son of Joseph Abendana and brother to Isaac Abendana.
James Hamilton, 1st Earl of Abercorn PC (12 August 1575Calendar State Papers Scotland, vol. 5 (1907), 182.
A Java virtual machine (JVM) is an abstract computing machine that enables a computer to run a Java program. There are three notions of the JVM: specification, implementation, and instance.
[- Judgement of Paris.jpg|thumb |right |400px |The Judgement of Paris], [[Peter Paul Rubens, c.
Jurisdiction (from the Latin ius, iuris meaning &quot;law&quot; and dicere meaning &quot;to speak&quot;) is the practical authority granted to a legal body to administer justice within a defined field of responsibility, e.g.
Judeo-Christian is a term that groups Judaism and Christianity, either in reference to Christianity's derivation from Judaism or due to perceived parallels or commonalities shared between those two religions.. The term became prevalent towards the middle of the 20th century in the United States to link broader principles of Judeo-Christian ethics such as dignity Of human life, adherence to the Abrahamic Covenant, common decency, and support of traditional family values.
Jan Josephszoon van Goyen (; 13 January 1596 – 27 April 1656) was a Dutch landscape painter. Van Goyen was an extremely prolific artist; approximately twelve hundred paintings and more than one thousand drawings by him are known.
Saint Justin, also known as Justin Martyr (Greek: Ιουστίνος ο Μάρτυρας, Latin: Iustinus Martyr) was an early Christian apologist, and is regarded as the foremost interpreter of the theory of the Logos in the 2nd century.Rokeah (2002) Justin Martyr and the Jews p.
Johann Tetzel, O.P.
The James Tiptree Jr. Award is an annual literary prize for works of science fiction or fantasy that expand or explore one's understanding of gender.
Jadwiga (), also known as Hedwig (; 1373/4 – 17 July 1399), was the first female monarch of the Kingdom of Poland, reigning from 16 October 1384 until her death. She was the youngest daughter of Louis the Great, King of Hungary and Poland, and his wife Elizabeth of Bosnia.
thumb|right|200px|Lord Abinger.
In traditional Judaism, marriage is viewed as a contractual bond commanded by God in which a man and a woman come together to create a relationship in which God is directly involved. () Though procreation is not the sole purpose, a Jewish marriage is traditionally expected to fulfill the commandment to have children.
Janusz Andrzej Zajdel (15 August 1938 – 19 July 1985) was a  Polish science fiction author, second in popularity in Poland to Stanisław Lem.  His major genres were social science fiction and dystopia.
The James Norris Memorial Trophy, or simply the Norris Trophy, is awarded annually to the National Hockey League's top &quot;defense player who demonstrates throughout the season the greatest all-round ability in the position&quot;. It is named after James E.
}}
John Nash may refer to:
The Jewish Defense League (JDL) is a Jewish far-right religious-political organization in the United States, whose stated goal is to &quot;protect Jews from antisemitism by whatever means necessary&quot;. While the group asserts that it &quot;unequivocally condemns terrorism&quot; and states that it has a &quot;strict no-tolerance policy against terrorism and other felonious acts&quot;, it was classified as &quot;a right wing extremist group&quot; by the FBI in 2001 and is considered a radical organization by the Southern Poverty Law Center.
JMS may refer to:
The John von Neumann Theory Prize of the Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS)
John Walker may refer to:
Jet streams are fast flowing, narrow, meandering air currents found in the atmosphere of some planets, including Earth. On Earth, the main jet streams are located near the altitude of the tropopause and are westerly winds (flowing west to east).
Joint Interoperability of Tactical Command and Control Systems or JINTACCS is a United States military program for the development and maintenance of tactical information exchange configuration items (CIs) and operational procedures. It was originated to ensure that the command and control (C2 and C3) and weapons systems of all US military services and NATO forces would be interoperable.
Jamming (or variants) may refer to:
Larry Thompson  James Comey
Japheth  ( , Modern Hebrew: ;  ; ), is one of the three sons of Noah in the Book of Genesis, where he plays a role in the story of Noah's drunkenness and the curse of Ham, and subsequently in the Table of Nations as the ancestor of the peoples of Europe and Anatolia. In medieval and early modern European tradition he was considered to be the progenitor of European and, later, East Asian peoples.
Just another Perl hacker, or JAPH, typically refers to a Perl program which prints &quot;Just another Perl hacker,&quot; (the comma is canonical but is occasionally omitted).  Short JAPH programs are often used as signatures in online forums, or as T-shirt designs.
thumb|Harmonic series, partials 1–5 numbered .
100 CE (aged c. 63)
Jan Borukowski of Bielin (1524–1584) was the Bishop
Joel Marangella is an American oboist who has performed in concert with many of the world's leading orchestras. A founding member of the Speculum Musicae, he was the principal oboist for the West Australian Symphony Orchestra, and a founding member of the New Music Ensemble.
}}
Jebus may refer to:
Jeroboam II ( Yārāḇə‘ām; ; ) was the son and successor of Jehoash, (alternatively spelled Joash), and the fourteenth king of the ancient Kingdom of Israel, over which he ruled for forty-one years in the eighth century BC. His reign was contemporary with those of Amaziah (2 Kings 14:23) and Uzziah (15:1), kings of Judah.
Janus kinase (JAK) is a family of intracellular, nonreceptor tyrosine kinases that transduce cytokine-mediated signals via the JAK-STAT pathway. They were initially named &quot;just another kinase&quot; 1 and 2 (since they were just two of a large number of discoveries in a PCR-based screen of kinases,) but were ultimately published as &quot;Janus kinase&quot;.
thumb|John Adams
Jerome Callet (born April 24, 1930) is a musician, teacher and designer of brass instruments.
The History of Java can refer to:
Java is a German-style board game designed by Wolfgang Kramer and Michael Kiesling and published in 2000 by Ravensburger in German and by Rio Grande Games in English. It is illustrated by Franz Vohwinkel.
John Radcliffe}}
Joual () is the common name for the linguistic features of basilectal Quebec French that are associated with the French-speaking working class in Montreal which has become a symbol of national identity for a large number of artists from that area. Speakers of Quebec French from outside Montreal usually have other names to identify their speech, such as Magoua in Trois-Rivières, and Chaouin south of Trois-Rivières.
The Book of Genesis speaks of the relationship between Jacob and Esau, focusing on Esau's loss of his birthright to Jacob and the conflict that had spawned between their descendant nations because of Jacob's deception of their aged and blind father, Isaac, in order to receive Esau's birthright/blessing from Isaac.
Johann Baptist Homann (20 March 1664 – 1 July 1724) was a German geographer and cartographer, who also made maps of the Americas.
}}
Jewel may refer to:
Jaap de Hoop Scheffer
Jule Styne (; December 31, 1905 – September 20, 1994) was a British-American song writer and composer known for a series of Broadway musicals, which include several famous and frequently revived shows.
}}
Australian
In optics, polarized light can be described using the Jones calculus, discovered by R. C.
John Stauber is an American progressive writer. Stauber has co-authored five books about government propaganda, private interests and the public relations industry.
Judge Joseph Dredd is a fictional character who appears in British comic books published by Rebellion Developments, as well as in a number of movie and video game adaptations.  He was created by writer John Wagner and artist Carlos Ezquerra, and first appeared in the second issue of 2000 AD (1977), a weekly science-fiction anthology comic.
James Robert Flynn FRSNZ (born 1934) is a New Zealand intelligence researcher. An Emeritus Professor of Political Studies at the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand, he is famous for his publications about the continued year-after-year increase of IQ scores throughout the world, which is now referred to as the Flynn effect.
Jacobite means follower of &quot;Jacob&quot; or &quot;James.&quot; (Jacobus is the Latin form of James.
Jelly may refer to:
The Junkers Ju 87 or Stuka (from Sturzkampfflugzeug, &quot;dive bomber&quot;) was a German dive bomber and ground-attack aircraft. Designed by Hermann Pohlmann, it first flew in 1935.
The Book of Jarom is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. According to the text it was written by Jarom, a descendant of Jacob, the brother of the prophet Nephi.
Keyboard may refer to:
The koto (Japanese: [is a traditional Japan]ese [[string instrument|stringed musical instrument derived from the Chinese zheng, and similar to the Mongolian yatga, the Korean gayageum, and the Vietnamese đàn tranh. The koto is the national instrument of Japan.
Kinetics (, movement or to move) may refer to:
A kludge (or kluge) (/klʌdʒ/, /kluːʒ/, /kluːdʒ/) is a workaround or quick-and-dirty solution that is clumsy, inelegant, inefficient, difficult to extend and hard to maintain. This term is used in diverse fields such as computer science, aerospace engineering, Internet slang, evolutionary neuroscience, and government.
Kishka can be:
KG}}
Knitting is a method by which yarn is manipulated to create a textile or fabric for use in many types of garments.
Kazakhstan, the largest country of the Eurasian Steppe, has been a historical &quot;crossroads&quot; and home to numerous different peoples, states and empires throughout history.
Kazakhstan is located in Central Asia and Eastern Europe at . With an area of about 2,724,800 square kilometers, Kazakhstan is more than twice the combined size of the other four Central Asian states, or about twice the size of Alaska.
The politics of Kazakhstan takes place in the framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Kazakhstan is head of state and nominates the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$461 billion (PPP, 2016)
This article provides an overview of the communications infrastructure of the country of Kazakhstan.
The vast territory of Kazakhstan spans across . The population density is low in Kazakhstan, and the centers of industry and agriculture are spread out and remote from world markets.
Foreign relations of Kazakhstan are primarily based on economic and political security. The Nazarbayev administration has tried to balance relations with Russia and the United States by sending petroleum and natural gas to its northern neighbor at artificially low prices while assisting the U.
A part of Eastern Africa,
The geography of Kenya is diverse. Kenya has a coastline on the Indian Ocean, which contains swamps of East African mangroves.
Kenya is a multi-ethnic state in the Great Lakes region of East Africa. It is inhabited primarily by Bantu and Nilotic populations, with some Cushitic-speaking ethnic minorities in the north.
The Politics of Kenya take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Kenya is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system in accordance with a new constitution passed in 2010.
$145.650 billion}} Nominal: $65.
Telecommunications in Kenya include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Kenya refers to the transportation structure in Kenya. The country has an extensive network of paved and unpaved roads.
Kenya maintains relations with various countries around the world. Its closest ties are with its fellow Swahili-speaking neighbours in the African Great Lakes region.
The islands which now form the Republic of Kiribati have been inhabited for at least seven hundred years, and possibly much longer. The initial Micronesian population, which remains the overwhelming majority today, was visited by Polynesian and Melanesian invaders before the first European sailors visited the islands in the 17th century.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Kiribati, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Kiribati takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Kiribati is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Kiribati has two international airports (Tarawa and Kiritimati). The main port is Betio (Tarawa).
The following article outlines transport in Kiribati.
Kiribati is a full member of The Commonwealth, the IMF and the World Bank, and became a full member of the United Nations in 1999. Kiribati hosted the Thirty-First Pacific Islands Forum in October 2000.
Kuwait is a country in the Persian Gulf. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, Kuwait was a prosperous trade port.
right|thumb|350px|A satellite image of [[Kuwait.]]
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Kuwait.
Kuwait is a constitutional emirate with a semi-democratic political system.  The hybrid political system is divided between an elected parliament and appointed government.
Telecommunications in Kuwait provides information about the telephone, Internet, radio, and television infrastructure in Kuwait.
As an oil rich nation, Transport in Kuwait is largely road based, one car for every 2.25 people.
}}
Since its independence in 1961, Kuwait maintained strong international relations with most countries, especially nations within the Arab world.  Its vast oil reserves gives it a prominent voice in global economic forums and organizations like the OPEC.
The history of the Kyrgyz people and the land of Kyrgyzstan goes back more than 2,000 years. Although geographically isolated by its mountainous location, it had an important role as part of the historical Silk Road trade route.
}}
The Politics of Kyrgyzstan, officially known as the Kyrgyz Republic takes place in the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President is head of state and the Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan is head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$7.4 billion (2015 est.
}}
thumb|A road in Osh
Kyrgyzstan favors close relations with other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, particularly Kazakhstan and Russia.
Krone (the cognate of Crown) may refer to:
right|thumb|250px|Kattegat and [[Skagerrak]]
In statistics, the Kolmogorov–Smirnov test (K–S test or KS test) is a nonparametric test of the equality of continuous, one-dimensional probability distributions that can be used to compare a sample with a reference probability distribution (one-sample K–S test), or to compare two samples (two-sample K–S test).  It is named after  Andrey Kolmogorov and Nikolai Smirnov.
K (named kay )&quot;K&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;kay,&quot; op. cit.
Kappa is a letter of the Greek alphabet.
Kuiper's test is used in statistics to test that whether a given distribution, or family of distributions, is contradicted by evidence from a sample of data. It is named after Dutch mathematician Nicolaas Kuiper.
Kul Tigin (Old Turkic:, Kultegin,Kultegin’s Memorial Complex, TÜRIK BITIG ([Pinyin]: quètèqín, [[Wade-Giles: chüeh-t'e-ch'in, AD 684–731) was a general of the Second Turkic Khaganate. He was a second son of Ilterish Qaghan, the dynasty's founder, and the younger brother of Bilge Kaghan, the fourth kaghan.
Keno  is a lottery-like gambling game often played at modern casinos, and also offered as a game in some lotteries.
Kenyanthropus platyops is a 3.5 to 3.
(; ; Okinawan pronunciation: ) is a martial art developed in the Ryukyu Kingdom. It developed from the indigenous Ryukyuan martial arts (called , &quot;hand&quot;; tii in Okinawan) under the influence of Chinese martial arts, particularly Fujian White Crane.
(S. Korean)조선 (N.
In mathematical logic and computer science, the Kleene star (or Kleene operator or Kleene closure) is a unary operation, either on sets of strings or on sets of symbols or characters. In mathematics
)
Kernel may refer to:
)In North Korea: ()
A kite is a type of aircraft.
}}
The Kaddish or Qaddish (, qaddiš &quot;holy&quot;; alternative spellings: ḳaddish) is a hymn of praises to God found in Jewish prayer services. The central theme of the Kaddish is the magnification and sanctification of God's name.
The Kalevala or The Kalewala (;&quot;Kalevala&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
A kylix is a type of drinking cup used in ancient Greece
A kenning (Old Norse pronunciation:  , Modern Icelandic pronunciation: ) is a type of circumlocution, in the form of a compound that employs figurative language in place of a more concrete single-word noun. Kennings are strongly associated with Old Norse and later Icelandic and Old English poetry.
Kult is a contemporary horror role-playing game originally designed by Gunilla Jonsson and Michael Petersén, first published in Sweden by Äventyrsspel (later Target Games) in 1991.Speltidningen.
thumb|right|200px|Portrait of Carl Friedrich Abel by [[Thomas Gainsborough, 1777]]
thumb|right|Kista seen from [[Kista Science Tower.]]
thumb|Hunker Creek Valley, Klondike
Korean cuisine has evolved through centuries of social and political change. Originating from ancient agricultural and nomadic traditions in the Korean peninsula and southern Manchuria, Korean cuisine has evolved through a complex interaction of the natural environment and different cultural trends.
The kilobyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. The International System of Units (SI) defines the prefix kilo as 1000 (103); therefore one kilobyte is 1000 bytes.
thumb|Title page from Nordamerika in geographischen und geschichtlichen Umrissen (Geographical and historical outline of North America)
The Kuiper belt ( or ),Kuiper belt – oxforddictionaries.com sometimes called the Edgeworth–Kuiper belt, is a circumstellar disc in the Solar System beyond the (known) planets, extending from the orbit of Neptune (at 30 AU) to approximately 50 AU from the Sun.
* avant-garde
The Katzenjammer Kids is an American comic strip created by the German immigrant Rudolph Dirks and drawn by Harold H. Knerr for 37 years (1912 to 1949).
In chemistry, a ketone (alkanone)  is an organic compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of carbon-containing substituents. Ketones and aldehydes are simple compounds that contain a carbonyl group (a carbon-oxygen double bond).
A ketene is an organic compound of the form R′R″C=C=O. Ketene also refers to CH2=C=O, occasionally called ethenone.
A kistvaen or cistvaen is a tomb or burial chamber formed from flat stone slabs in a box-like shape. If set completely underground, it may be covered by a tumulus.
King Arthur is a legendary British leader who, according to medieval histories and romances, led the defence of Britain against Saxon invaders in the late 5th and early 6th centuries AD. The details of Arthur's story are mainly composed of folklore and literary invention, and his historical existence is debated and disputed by modern historians.
In geometry, a Kepler–Poinsot polyhedron is any of four regular star polyhedra.Coxeter, Star polytopes and the Schläfli function f(α,β,γ) p.
The kora is a 21-string lute-bridge-harp used extensively in West Africa.http://asza.
Callicrates (; , Kallikratēs) was an ancient Greek architect active in the middle of the fifth century BC. He and Ictinus were architects of the Parthenon (Plutarch, Pericles, 13).
Korfball () is a ball sport, with similarities to netball and basketball. It is played by two teams of eight players with four females and four males in each team or with eight females in each team.
Overview of a section of the city
Kornilov () and Kornilova (feminine; ) is a common Russian surname derived from the baptismal name Kornil (). Notable people with this surname include:
}}
Kicking, Austria}}
Kilo (from the Greek , literally a thousand) is a decimal unit prefix in the metric system denoting multiplication by one thousand (103). It has been used in the International System of Units where it has the unit symbol k, in lower case.
In probability theory and statistics, kurtosis (from , kyrtos or kurtos, meaning &quot;curved, arching&quot;) is a measure of the &quot;tailedness&quot; of the probability distribution of a real-valued random variable. In a similar way to the concept of skewness, kurtosis is a descriptor of the shape of a probability distribution and, just as for skewness, there are different ways of quantifying it for a theoretical distribution and corresponding ways of estimating it from a sample from a population.
. p.
is the pen-name of Japanese manga artist Michitaka Kikuchi whose work spans multiple genres and appeals to diverse audiences.
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas or Aqdas is the central book of the Bahá'í Faith written by Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the religion, in 1873.Saiedi, 2000, pp.
A  is one of several types of traditionally made swords from Japan. Swords have been made from as early as the Kofun period, though generally &quot;Japanese swords&quot; refer to the curved blades made after the Heian period.
A  (; , ;  kong'an; ) is a story, dialogue, question, or statement, which is used in Zen practice to provoke the &quot;great doubt&quot; and test a student's progress in Zen practice.
Karma (; ; ;) means action, work or deed;See:
, pp. 545–546.
thumb|upright|A traditional wedding kimono with tsunokakushi (wedding headpiece)
Kashrut (also kashruth or kashrus, ) is a set of Jewish religious dietary laws. Food that may be consumed according to halakha (Jewish law) is termed kosher  in English, from the Ashkenazi pronunciation of the Hebrew term kashér (), meaning &quot;fit&quot; (in this context, fit for consumption).
Kosher is food that may be consumed according to the Kashrut, or Jewish dietary laws.
NES Game Boy AdvanceNintendo 3DS3D ClassicsPromotionPurchase
Most broadly, Kansas City is the 15-county Kansas City metropolitan area in the U.S.
thumb|Maximilian [[Gothic plate armour, 15th century]]A knight is a person granted an honorary title of knighthood by a monarch or other political leader for service to the monarch or country, especially in a military capacity. Historically, in Europe, knighthood was conferred upon mounted warriors.
Zhōngguó Guómíndǎng
KMT or kmt may refer to:
Cabala}}
}}
The KAB-500KR is an electro-optical TV-guided fire and forget bomb developed by the Soviet Air Force in the 1980s.  It remains in service with the CIS and various export customers.
The KAB-500L is a laser-guided bomb developed by the Soviet Air Force. It remains in service with the CIS and post-Soviet Russian Air Force.
The Kamov Ka-50 &quot;Black Shark&quot; (, NATO reporting name: Hokum A) is a single-seat Russian attack helicopter with the distinctive coaxial rotor system of the Kamov design bureau. It was designed in the 1980s and adopted for service in the Russian army in 1995.
Knowledge representation and reasoning (KR) is the field of artificial intelligence (AI) dedicated to representing information about the world in a form that a computer system can utilize to solve complex tasks such as diagnosing a medical condition or having a dialog in a natural language. Knowledge representation incorporates findings from psychology about how humans solve problems and represent knowledge in order to design formalisms that will make complex systems easier to design and build.
Knowledge Aided Retrieval in Activity Context (KARNAC) is a system being developed in the United States for use in profiling different categories of terrorist attacks to determine the components of possible future terrorist incidents.
Kabaddi is a contact team sport that originated in the Indian subcontinent. It is popular in South Asia and is the state game of the Indian states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana, Haryana, Maharashtra, Bihar, and Punjab.
Keramikos (), also known by its Latinized form Ceramicus, is an area of Athens, Greece, located to the northwest of the Acropolis, which includes an extensive area both within and outside the ancient city walls, on both sides of the Dipylon (Δίπυλον) Gate and by the banks of the Eridanos River. It was the potters' quarter of the city, from which the English word &quot;ceramic&quot; is derived, and was also the site of an important cemetery and numerous funerary sculptures erected along the road out of the city towards Eleusis.
Kaber may refer to:
The Kamov Ka-25 (NATO reporting name 'Hormone') was a naval helicopter, developed for the Soviet Navy in the USSR from .
Kainite (KMg(SO4)Cl·3H2O) is an evaporite mineral in the class of &quot;Sulfates (selenates, etc.) with additional anions, with H2O&quot; according to the Nickel-Strunz classification.
(2013)
Kabyle may refer to:
Kaolinite in the Handbook of Mineralogy
The Kawasaki Ki-56 (一式貨物輸送機, Type 1 Freight Transport) was a Japanese two-engine light transport aircraft used during World War II. It was known to the Allies by the reporting name &quot;Thalia&quot;.
MV Wilhelm Gustloff was a German military transport ship which was sunk on 30 January 1945 by  in the Baltic Sea while evacuating German civilians, Nazi officials and military personnel from Gdynia (Gotenhafen) as the Red Army advanced. By one estimate,&quot;Wilhelm Gustloff: World's Deadliest Sea Disasters&quot;.
 United States
Kata is a martial arts term referring to a pattern of defense-and-attack. Kata may also mean:
Katyusha}}
Kvass is a traditional Slavic and Baltic fermented beverage commonly made from rye bread,   known in many Eastern European countries and especially in Russia as black bread. The colour of the bread used contributes to the colour of the resulting drink.
The Kolmogorov–Arnold–Moser theorem (KAM theorem) is a result in dynamical systems about the persistence of quasiperiodic motions under small perturbations.  The theorem partly resolves the small-divisor problem that arises in the perturbation theory of classical mechanics.
Kam or KAM refer to:
The knapsack problem or rucksack problem is a problem in combinatorial optimization: Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, determine the number of each item to include in a collection so that the total weight is less than or equal to a given limit and the total value is as large as possible. It derives its name from the problem faced by someone who is constrained by a fixed-size knapsack and must fill it with the most valuable items.
KY or Ky may refer to:
is a classical Japanese dance-drama. Kabuki theatre is known for the stylization of its drama and for the elaborate make-up worn by some of its performers.
The knock-knock joke is a &quot;question-and-answer&quot; joke, usually ending with a pun. The teller of the joke calls &quot;Knock, knock!
Kerosene, also known as paraffin, lamp oil, and coal oil (an obsolete term), is a combustible hydrocarbon liquid which is derived from petroleum, widely used as a fuel in industry as well as households. Its name derives from  (keros) meaning wax, and was registered as a trademark by Abraham Gesner in 1854 before evolving into a genericized trademark.
}}
Kohlrabi (German turnip or turnip cabbage; Brassica oleracea Gongylodes Group) is a biennial vegetable, and is a low, stout cultivar of cabbage. Kohlrabi can be eaten raw as well as cooked.
The Kennelly–Heaviside layer, named after Arthur E. Kennelly and Oliver Heaviside, also known as the E region or simply the Heaviside layer, is a layer of ionised gas occurring between roughly 90–150 km (56–93 mi) above the ground — one of several layers in the Earth's ionosphere.
frame|right|Some knots
Kanaris may mean:
There are several places named Kinderhook in the United States:
m) H-M symbol: (4/m  2/m)
Kuleshov () and Kuleshova (; feminine) is a common Russian surname that traces its origins to  Ukraine
of which 233,000 claim as ethnic-national identity (2011)
Karst topography is a landscape formed from the dissolution of soluble rocks such as limestone, dolomite, and gypsum. It is characterized by underground drainage systems with sinkholes and caves.
The Kellogg–Briand Pact (or Pact of Paris, officially General Treaty for Renunciation of War as an Instrument of National PolicySee Certified true copy of the text of the treaty in League of Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 94, p.
The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs found on the left and right sides of the body in vertebrates. They filter the blood in order to make urine, to release and retain water, and to remove waste and nitrogen (the excretory system).
Kern may refer to:
Khadamat-e Aetla'at-e Dawlati (Pashto/) translates directly to English as: &quot;State Intelligence Agency&quot;.  However, this phrase is more precisely translated as &quot;State Information Services&quot;, Khadamat-e Aetela'at-e Dawlati, almost always known by its acronym KHAD (or KhAD), is the main security agency and intelligence agency of Afghanistan, and also served as the secret police during the Soviet occupation.
Protea cynaroides, the king protea, is a flowering plant. It is a distinctive member of Protea, having the largest flower head in the genus.
thumb|250px|right|10-stringed and 5 stringed kanteles by Melodia Soitin (2014).
) (same H-M symbol)
The Kansas–Nebraska Act of 1854 () created the territories of Kansas and Nebraska and was drafted by Democratic Senator Stephen A. Douglas of Illinois and President Franklin Pierce.
A kaleidoscope is an optical instrument with two or more reflecting surfaces inclined to each other in an angle, so that one or more (parts of) objects on one end of the mirrors are seen as a regular symmetrical pattern when viewed from the other end, due to repeated reflection. The reflectors (or mirrors) are usually enclosed in a tube, often containing on one end a cell with loose, colored pieces of glass or other transparent (and/or opaque) materials to be reflected into the viewed pattern.
Kalmia latifolia, commonly called mountain laurel,
KB, kB or kb may stand for:
thumb|[[Pol Pot, leader of the Khmer Rouge and Prime Minister of Democratic Kampuchea, in 1978]]
In Shinto,  is the collective name for the first gods which came into existence at the time of the creation of the universe. They were born in Takamagahara, the world of Heaven at the time of the creation.
thumb|The three rings were the symbol for Krupp, based on the Radreifen – the seamless railway wheels patented by Alfred Krupp. The rings are currently part of the [[ThyssenKrupp logotype.
Convention People's Party
The kangaroo is a marsupial from the family Macropodidae (macropods, meaning &quot;large foot&quot;). In common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this family, especially those of the genus Macropus: the red kangaroo, antilopine kangaroo, eastern grey kangaroo, and western grey kangaroo.
thumb|250px|Kirlian photograph of two coins
A rough estimate in this edition has populations of 14.3 million in Turkey, 8.
In physics, Kaluza–Klein theory (KK theory) is a unified field theory of gravitation and electromagnetism built around the idea of a fifth dimension beyond the usual four of space and time. It is considered to be an important precursor to string theory.
Kalsilite (KAlSiO4) is a vitreous white to grey feldspathoidal mineral that is found in some potassium-rich lavas, such as from Chamengo Crater in Uganda. It has a relative hardness of 5.
Ranked 29th
or  , is a form of interactive entertainment or video game developed in Japan in which an amateur singer sings along with recorded music (a music video) using a microphone. The music is typically an instrumental version of a well-known popular song.
right|thumb|400px|A scanned image of Keykode from a piece of unexposed, developed [[35 mm film|35 mm Eastman Kodak motion picture color negative. All of these slices are from the same side of the same piece of negative, cropped and stacked for simplicity.
thumb|upright|Punishment with an Ordinary Knout, an 18th-century print
KAOS or Kaos may refer to:
In computer performance testing, Khornerstone is a multipurpose benchmark from Workstation Labs used in various periodicals such as UNIX Review.
Ket or KET may also refer to:
thumb|The 1948 first edition of Sexual Behavior in the Human Male, the first of the two Kinsey reports
}}
}}
The K6 microprocessor was launched by AMD in 1997. The main advantage of this particular microprocessor is that it was designed to fit into existing desktop designs for Pentium branded CPUs.
K7, K07 or K-7 may refer to:
KA9Q, also called KA9Q NOS or simply NOS, was a popular early implementation of TCP/IP and associated protocols for amateur packet radio systems and smaller personal computers connected via serial lines. It was named after the amateur radio callsign of Phil Karn, who first wrote the software for a CP/M system and then ported it to DOS on the IBM PC.
In cryptography, a keyed-hash message authentication code (HMAC) is a specific type of message authentication code (MAC) involving a cryptographic hash function and a secret cryptographic key.  It may be used to simultaneously verify both the data integrity and the authentication of a message, as with any MAC.
Key escrow (also known as a “fair” cryptosystem) is an arrangement in which the keys needed to decrypt encrypted data are held in escrow so that, under certain circumstances, an authorized third party may gain access to those keys. These third parties may include businesses, who may want access to employees' private communications, or governments, who may wish to be able to view the contents of encrypted communications.
A key frame in animation and filmmaking is a drawing that defines the starting and ending points of any smooth transition. The drawings are called &quot;frames&quot; because their position in time is measured in frames on a strip of film.
The Kurfürstendamm (colloquially Ku'damm, ) is one of the most famous avenues in Berlin. The street takes its name from the former Kurfürsten (prince-electors) of Brandenburg.
}}}}
In an archipelago like the Hawaiian Islands the water between islands is typically called a channel or passage. Described here are the channels between the islands of Hawaiʻi, arranged from northwest to southeast.
}}
Keyword may refer to:
FX-87 is a polymorphic typed functional language based on a system for static program analysis in which every expression has two static properties: a type and an effect. In a study done by MIT, FX-87 yields similar performance results as functional languages on programs that do not contain side effects (Fibonacci, Factorial).
The katal (symbol: kat) is the SI unit of catalytic activity. It is a derived SI unit for quantifying the catalytic activity of enzymes (measuring  the enzymatic activity level in enzyme catalysis) and other catalysts.
Middle Pleistocene – Recent
A killer micro is a microprocessor-based machine that infringes on mini, mainframe, or supercomputer performance turf. It originally referred to the replacement of vector supercomputers built with bipolar technology by Massively Parallel Processors (MPP) assembled from a larger number of lower performing microprocessors.
In computer jargon, a killer poke is a method of inducing physical hardware damage on a machine or its peripherals by the insertion of invalid values, via, for example, BASIC's POKE command, into a memory-mapped control register. The term is typically used to describe a family of fairly well known tricks that can overload the analog electronics in the CRT monitors of computers lacking hardware sanity checking (notable examples being the IBM Portable and Commodore PET.
A kill file (also killfile, bozo bin or twit list) is a per-user file used by some Usenet reading programs to discard articles matching some unwanted patterns of subject, author, or other header lines.  It was first implemented in Larry Wall's rn.
Kilobaud may refer to:
The kilobit is a multiple of the unit bit for digital information or computer storage. The prefix kilo- (symbol k) is defined in the International System of Units (SI) as a multiplier of 103 (1 thousand),The NIST Reference on Constants, Units, and Uncertainty: SI prefixes and therefore,
Kirin may refer to:
A kipper is a whole herring, a small, oily fish, that has been split in a butterfly fashion from tail to head along the dorsal ridge, gutted, salted or pickled, and cold-smoked over smouldering woodchips (typically oak).
A knife (plural knives) is a tool with a cutting edge or blade, hand-held or otherwise, with most having a handle.  Some types of knives are used as utensils, including knives used at the dining table (e.
}}
A kiosk (, ) is a small, separated garden pavilion open on some or all sides. Kiosks were common in Persia, the Indian subcontinent, and in the Ottoman Empire from the 13th century onward.
The Knowbot Information Service (KIS), also known as netaddress, is an Internet user search engine that debuted in December 1989. It provided a uniform user interface to a variety of remote directory services such as whois, finger, X.
KISS is an early low-level programming language on the IBM 650 business computer. It was listed in the Communications of the ACM 2(5):16 (May 1959).
KISS is an acronym for &quot;Keep it simple, stupid&quot; as a design principle noted by the U.S.
Kit may refer to:
Kernel Language 0 (KL0) is a sequential logic programming language based on Prolog, used in the ICOT Fifth generation computer project.
KL1, or Kernel Language 1 is an experimental AND-parallel version of KL0 developed for the ICOT Fifth Generation Computer project. KL1 is an implementation of Flat GHC (a subset of the Guarded Horn Clauses language by Kazunori Ueda), making it a parallelised Prolog variant.
The Klamath people are a Native American tribe of the Plateau culture area in Southern Oregon and Northern California. Today Klamath people are enrolled in the federally recognized tribes:
The Klerer-May System is a programming language developed in the mid-1960s, oriented to numerical scientific programming, whose most notable feature is its two-dimensional syntax based on traditional mathematical notation.
KL-ONE (pronounced &quot;kay ell won&quot;) is a well known knowledge representation system in the tradition of semantic networks and  frames; that is, it is a frame language. The system is an attempt to overcome semantic indistinctness in semantic network representations and to explicitly represent conceptual information as a structured inheritance network.
Keilhauite (also known as yttrotitanite) is a variety of the mineral titanite of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form. It consists chiefly of silicon dioxide, titanium dioxide, calcium oxide, and yttrium oxide.
). There are three kana scripts: modern cursive hiragana (), formerly known as a women's script; modern angular katakana (); and the old syllabic use of kanji known as man’yōgana () that was ancestral to both.
KMS may refer to:
thumb|The Knights of the Lambda Calculus' recursive emblem celebrates LISP's theoretical foundation, the [[lambda calculus. Y in the emblem refers to the fixed-point combinator and the reappearance of the picture in itself refers to recursion.
A knowbot is a kind of bot that collects information by automatically gathering certain specified information from web sites.
Knuth is a name of Nordic origin. Knuth may refer to:
In computing, the KOMPILER was one of the first language compilation and runtime systems for International Business Machines' IBM 701, the fastest commercial U.S.
A kilt ( )Am Faclair Beag is a knee-length non-[skirt]-type [[garment with pleats at the rear, originating in the traditional dress of men and boys in the Scottish Highlands of the 16th century. Since the 19th century, it has become associated with the wider culture of Scotland, or with Celtic (and more specifically Gaelic) heritage even more broadly.
The Knowledge Query and Manipulation Language, or KQML, is a language
KR is the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 and WMO country code for South Korea.
KRC (Kent Recursive Calculator) is a lazy functional language developed by David Turner from November 1979 to October 1981Dates in the commentary to the BCPL KRC source code for EMAS. based on SASL, with pattern matching, guards and ZF expressions (now more usually called list comprehensions).
Kremvax was originally a fictitious Usenet site at the Kremlin, named like the then large number of Usenet VAXen with names of the form foovax. Kremvax was announced on April 1, 1984 in a posting ostensibly originated there by Soviet leader Konstantin Chernenko.
KRL is a knowledge representation language, developed by Daniel G. Bobrow and Terry Winograd while at Xerox PARC and Stanford University, respectively.
KSH or ksh may refer to:
KSL may refer to:
Knowledge Systems Laboratory (KSL) is an artificial intelligence research laboratory within the Department of Computer Science at Stanford University, located at the Gates Computer Science Building, Stanford. Current work focuses on knowledge representation for shareable engineering knowledge bases and systems, computational environments for modelling physical devices, architectures for adaptive intelligent systems, and expert systems for science and engineering.
KSR is an initialism that may mean:
thumb|Plaque commemorating Kennedy's speech next to the front entrance of [[Rathaus Schöneberg]]
Kyoto Common Lisp (KCL) is an implementation of Common Lisp by Taichi Yuasa and Masami Hagiya, written in C to run under Unix-like operating systems. KCL is compiled to ANSI C.
Kateretes is a genus of sap beetle.
James Parry (born July 13, 1967), commonly known by his nickname and username Kibo , is a Usenetter known for his sense of humor, various surrealist net pranks, an absurdly long .signature, Version saved by googlepages dated &quot;5/5/94&quot; and a machine-assisted knack for &quot;kibozing&quot;: joining any thread in which &quot;kibo&quot; was mentioned.
&quot;Kubla Khan; or, A Vision in a Dream: A Fragment&quot;  is a poem written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge, completed in 1797 and published in 1816. According to Coleridge's Preface to &quot;Kubla Khan&quot;, the poem was composed one night after he experienced an opium-influenced dream after reading a work describing Xanadu, the summer palace of the Mongol ruler and Emperor of China Kublai Khan.
Caspar (or Kaspar) Schwen(c)kfeld von Ossig () (1489 or 1490 – 10 December 1561) was a German theologian, writer, and preacher who became a Protestant Reformer and spiritualist, one of the earliest promoters of the Protestant Reformation in Silesia.
The Kitt Peak National Observatory (KPNO) is a United States astronomical observatory site located on 2,096 m (6,880 ft) Kitt Peak of the Quinlan Mountains in the Arizona-Sonoran Desert on the Tohono O'odham Nation,  west-southwest of Tucson, Arizona. With 24 optical and two radio telescopes, it is the largest, most diverse gathering of astronomical instruments in the world.
Karlheinz Stockhausen (; 22 August 1928 – 5 December 2007) was a German composer, widely acknowledged by critics as one of the most important (; ; ; ) but also controversial  composers of the 20th and early 21st centuries. A critic calls him &quot;one of the great visionaries of 20th-century music&quot; .
The Kanem–Bornu Empire was an empire that existed in modern Chad and Nigeria. It was known to the Arabian geographers as the Kanem Empire from the 9th century AD onward and lasted as the independent kingdom of Bornu until 1900.
The Komondor  (in Hungarian, the plural form of komondor is komondorok), also known as the Hungarian sheepdog, is a large, white-coloured Hungarian breed of livestock guardian dog with a long, corded coat.
}}
right|thumb|upright=1.7|A rough schematic drawing showing growth cycles in the world economy over time according to the Kondratiev theory
Kathleen Dee-Anne Stark (born April 26, 1956, New York City), better known as Koo Stark, is an American film actress and photographer, mostly remembered for her friendship with Prince Andrew.
Krzysztof Eugeniusz Penderecki (; ; born 23 November 1933) is a Polish composer and conductor. The Guardian has called him Poland's greatest living composer.
For the Ian McNabb album, see Krugerrands.
Serbia Yugoslavia
Karl August Böttiger (8 June 1760 – 17 November 1835) was a German archaeologist and classicist, and a prominent member of the literary and artistic circles in Weimar and Jena.
thumb|[[Ukiyo-e print by Utagawa Kuniyoshi that depicts Kakinomoto no Hitomaro]]
The  Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions (or Resolves) were political statements drafted in 1798 and 1799, in which the Kentucky and Virginia legislatures took the position that the federal Alien and Sedition Acts were unconstitutional. The resolutions argued that the states had the right and the duty to declare unconstitutional acts of Congress that were not authorized by the Constitution.
The Keystone Cops (often spelled &quot;Keystone Kops&quot;) were fictional incompetent policemen, featured in silent film comedies in the early 20th century.  The movies were produced by Mack Sennett for his Keystone Film Company between 1912 and 1917.
For dates before the Soviet state's switch from the Julian calendar to the Gregorian calendar in February 1918, this article gives the date in the New Style (Gregorian) date-format first, followed by the same day in the Old Style (Julian) date-format (which appears in square brackets and slightly smaller); this is to facilitate comparison between primary and secondary sources. The difference between the two is 12 days for Julian dates prior to 1 March 1900 [Gregorian 14 March] and 13 days for Julian dates on or after 1 March 1900.
K cell may refer to:
Keynesian economics ( ; or Keynesianism) are the various theories about how in the short run – and especially during recessions – economic output is strongly influenced by aggregate demand (total spending in the economy). In the Keynesian view, aggregate demand does not necessarily equal the productive capacity of the economy; instead, it is influenced by a host of factors and sometimes behaves erratically, affecting production, employment, and inflation.
In physics, the kinetic energy of an object is the energy that it possesses due to its motion., Chapter 1, p.
The Khoisan languages (; also Khoesan or Khoesaan) are a group of African languages originally classified together by Joseph Greenberg.Greenberg, Joseph H.
Kashmir is the northernmost geographical region of the Indian subcontinent. Until the mid-19th century, the term &quot;Kashmir&quot; denoted only the Kashmir Valley between the Great Himalayas and the Pir Panjal Range.
Kendall Square Research (KSR) was a supercomputer company headquartered originally in Kendall Square in Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1986, near Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). It was co-founded by Steven Frank and Henry Burkhardt III, who had formerly helped found Data General and Encore Computer and was one of the original team that designed the PDP-8.
}}
The Kordofanian languages are a geographic grouping of five language groups spoken in the Nuba Mountains of the Kurdufan, Sudan: Talodi–Heiban languages, Lafofa languages, Rashad languages, Katla languages and Kadu languages. The first four groups are branches of the Niger–Congo family, whereas Kadu is now widely seen as a branch of the Nilo-Saharan family.
The Khuriya Muriya Islands (or Kuria Muria, or Curia Muria) (; transliterated: Juzur Khurīyā Murīyā or Khūryān Mūryān) are a group of five islands in the Arabian Sea,  off the southeastern coast of the Sultanate of Oman. The islands form part of the province of Shalim and the Hallaniyat Islands in the governorate of Dhofar.
Katherine Anne MacLean (born January 22, 1925) is an American science fiction author best known for her short fiction of the 1950s which examined the impact of technological advances on individuals and society.
Kuru may refer to:
K9 or K-9 may refer to:
thumb|250px|[[Charcoal kilns, California]]
Kiwifruit (often abbreviated as kiwi) or Chinese gooseberry is the edible berries of several species of woody vines in the genus Actinidia. The most common cultivar group of kiwifruit ('Hayward') is oval, about the size of a large hen's egg ( in length and  in diameter).
Konrad Emil Bloch, ForMemRS (January 21, 1912 – October 15, 2000) was a German American biochemist. Bloch received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1964 (joint with Feodor Lynen) for discoveries concerning the mechanism and regulation of the cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism.
KSC may refer to:
Koalang is a term coined by Janusz A. Zajdel, a Polish science fiction writer.
Kobellite (Pb22Cu4(Bi,Sb)30S69) is a gray, fibrous, metallic mineral. It is also a sulfide mineral consisting of antimony, bismuth, and lead.
A kayak is a small, narrow watercraft which is propelled by means of a double-bladed paddle. The word kayak originates from the Greenlandic language, where it is the word qajaq (pronounced  ).
Knights of Labor (K of L), officially Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor, was the largest and one of the most important American labor organizations of the 1880s. Its most important leader was Terence V.
Kryptonite is a material from the Superman fictional universe, specifically the ore form of a radioactive element (Pre-Crisis)Superman #130 or compound (Post-Crisis)Action Comics #591 from Superman's home planet of Krypton, not to be confused with the actual element krypton, a noble gas discovered in Britain in 1898 by Sir William Ramsay. First mentioned in The Adventures of Superman radio show in June 1943, the material has been featured in a variety of forms and colors (each with its own effect) in DC Comics publications and other media, including feature films, television series, and novelty items such as toys and trading card sets.
}}
In musical notation, a key signature is a set of sharp (), flat (), and rarely, natural () symbols placed together on the staff.  Key signatures are generally written immediately after the clef at the beginning of a line of musical notation, although they can appear in other parts of a score, notably after a double barline.
Kutia or Kutya is a cereal dish, traditionally served in Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and some parts of Poland.
}}
([only)|
Kamchatka Oblast (, Kamchatskaya oblast) was, until being incorporated into Kamchatka Krai on July 1, 2007, a federal subject of Russia (an oblast). To the north, it bordered Magadan Oblast and Chukotka Autonomous Okrug.
Kuznetsov, Kuznyetsov, Kuznetsoff, or Kouznetsov (masculine, ) or Kuznetsova (feminine, ) is the third most common Russian surname, an equivalent of the English &quot;Smith&quot; (derived from a Russian word kuznets that means blacksmith).
The Konix Multisystem was a cancelled video game system under development by Konix, a British manufacturer of computer peripherals.
thumb|240px|right|A two-dimensional representation of the Klein bottle [[Immersion (mathematics)|immersed in three-dimensional space]]
Kennedy may refer to:
Icehenge is a science fiction novel by American author Kim Stanley Robinson, published in 1984.
thumb|400px|The head knight, as portrayed by [[Michael Palin]]
A Künstlerroman (; plural -ane), meaning &quot;artist's novel&quot; in English, is a narrative about an artist's growth to maturity.Werlock, James P.
Kwanzaa () is a week-long celebration held in the United States and in other nations of the Western African diaspora in the Americas. The celebration honors African heritage in African-American culture, and is observed from December 26 to January 1, culminating in a feast and gift-giving.
Kingdom of Israel
Kingdom of Israel}}
Elah may refer to:
Key may refer to:
The Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker is a military aerial refueling aircraft.  It and the Boeing 707 airliner were developed from the Boeing 367-80 prototype.
The kittiwakes (genus Rissa) are two closely related seabird species in the gull family Laridae, the black-legged kittiwake (R. tridactyla) and the red-legged kittiwake (R.
The Kuwaiti oil fires were caused by Iraqi military forces setting fire to a reported 605 to 732 oil wells along with an unspecified number of oil filled low-lying areas, such as oil lakes and fire trenches, as part of a scorched earth policy while retreating from Kuwait in 1991 due to the advances of Coalition military forces in the Persian Gulf War. The fires were started in January and February 1991, and the first well fires were extinguished in early April 1991, with the last well capped on November 6, 1991.
The Kocher–Debré–Semelaigne syndrome is hypothyroidism in infancy or childhood characterised by lower extremity or generalized muscular hypertrophy, myxoedema, short stature and cretinism. The absence of painful spasms and pseudomyotonia differentiates this syndrome from Hoffmann syndrome.
, }} or more specifically , literally &quot;brocaded carp&quot;}}, are colored form of Amur carp (Cyprinus rubrofuscus) that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.
A  is a set of companies with interlocking business relationships and shareholdings. It is a type of informal business group.
Nazi Party
Relaxation}}
In statistics, a location family is a class of probability distributions that is parametrized by a scalar- or vector-valued parameter x_0, which determines the &quot;location&quot; or shift of the distribution. Formally, this means that the probability density functions or probability mass functions in this class have the form
century) depicting a person emitting a speech scroll from his mouth, symbolizing speech
Lattice may refer to:
Linnaean taxonomy can mean either of two related concepts:
A lawyer is a person who practices law, as an advocate, barrister, attorney, counselor or solicitor or chartered legal executive.Henry Campbell Black, Black's Law Dictionary, 5th ed.
Logrolling is the trading of favors, or quid pro quo, such as vote trading by legislative members to obtain passage of actions of interest to each legislative member.– Education 2020, government course; definition of logrolling: &quot;An agreement by two or more lawmakers to support each other's bills.
}}
Love is a variety of different emotional and mental states, typically strongly and positively experienced, that ranges from deepest interpersonal affection to simple pleasure. An example of this range of meanings is that the love of a mother differs from the love of a spouse differs from the love of food.
In astronomy, Kepler's laws of planetary motion are three scientific laws describing the motion of planets around the Sun.
A laser is a device that emits light through a process of optical amplification based on the stimulated emission of electromagnetic radiation. The term &quot;laser&quot; originated as an acronym for &quot;light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation&quot;.
thumb|215px|Players dressed in character for a LARP event
Lithium (from , &quot;stone&quot;) is a chemical element with symbol Li and atomic number 3. It is a soft, silvery-white alkali metal.
Labatt Brewing Company Ltd. () is a Belgian-owned Canadian beer company founded by John Kinder Labatt in 1847 in London, Ontario.
Local color/colour may refer to:
A linear equation is an algebraic equation in which each term is either a constant or the product of a constant and (the first power of) a single variable (however, different variables may occur in different terms). A simple example of a linear equation with only one variable, , may be written in the form: , where  and  are constants and .
LMS may refer to:
Limousine liberal and latte liberal are pejorative American political terms used to illustrate hypocritical behavior by political liberals of upper class or upper middle class status; including calls for the use of mass transit while frequently using limousines or private jets,Time . &quot;Limousine Liberal Hypocrisy&quot; by Charles Krauthammer.
The Lewis and Clark Expedition from May 1804 to September 1806, also known as the Corps of Discovery Expedition, was the first American expedition to cross what is now the western portion of the United States. It began near St.
In geography, latitude is a geographic coordinate that specifies the north–south position of a point on the Earth's surface. Latitude is an angle (defined below) which ranges from 0° at the Equator to 90° (North or South) at the poles.
Longitude ( or , Australian and British also ),http://www.merriam-webster.
A trade union or trades union, also called a labour union (Canada) or labor union (US), is an organization of workers who have come together to achieve common goals such as protecting the integrity of its trade, improving safety standards, achieving higher pay and benefits such as health care and retirement, increasing the number of employees an employer assigns to complete the work, and better working conditions. The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of union members ([and file|rank and file] members) and negotiates labour contracts (collective bargaining) with employers.
Liberal may refer to:
}}
The labor theory of value (LTV) is a theory of value that argues that the economic value of a good or service is determined by the total amount of socially necessary labor required to produce it, rather than by the use or pleasure its owner gets from it. At present, this concept is usually associated with Marxian economics, although it is also used in the theories of earlier liberal economists such as Adam Smith and David Ricardo and later also in anarchist economics.
The Lunar Society of Birmingham was a dinner club and informal learned society of prominent figures in the Midlands Enlightenment, including industrialists, natural philosophers and intellectuals, who met regularly between 1765 and 1813 in Birmingham, England.  At first called the Lunar Circle, &quot;Lunar Society&quot; became the formal name by 1775.
&quot;Libya, Libya, Libya&quot;
A letter game involves the exchange of written letters, or e-mails, between two or more participants. The first player writes a letter in the voice of a newly created character; in this first letter, the writer should establish their own identity and that of their correspondent, should set the scene, and should explain why they and their correspondent must communicate in written fashion.
In classical logic, the law of non-contradiction (LNC) (or the law of contradiction or the principle of non-contradiction (PNC), or the principle of contradiction) is the second of the three classic laws of thought.  It states that contradictory statements cannot both be true in the same sense at the same time, e.
In logic, the law of excluded middle (or the principle of excluded middle) is the third of the three classic laws of thought.  It states that for any proposition, either that proposition is  true, or its negation is true.
Lowball was an early type of railway signal which indicated danger or a need to stop.  The ball signal was a light or indicator suspended from a rope, that could move upwards and downwards, held by a weighted ball.
thumb|right|[[American football line of scrimmage, prior to a play]]
In American football and Canadian football, a lateral pass or lateral (officially backward pass in American football and onside pass in Canadian football) occurs when the ball carrier throws the football to a teammate in a direction parallel to or away from the opponents' goal line. A lateral pass is distinguished from a forward pass, in which the ball is thrown forward, towards the opposition's end zone.
Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis), balm, common balm,  or balm mint, is a perennial herbaceous plant in the mint family Lamiaceae and native to south-central Europe, the Mediterranean Basin, Iran, and Central Asia, but now naturalized in the Americas and elsewhere.Kewe World Checklist of Selected Plant Families
Early Cretaceous- Recent
Limerick is a city in Ireland.
Letterboxing is an outdoor hobby that combines elements of orienteering, art, and puzzle solving. Letterboxers hide small, weatherproof boxes in publicly accessible places (like parks) and distribute clues to finding the box in printed catalogs, on one of several web sites, or by word of mouth.
The term legal technicality is a casual or colloquial phrase referring to a technical aspect of law.  The phrase is not a term of art in the law; it has no exact meaning, nor does it have a legal definition.
In common law systems that rely on testimony by witnesses, a leading question or suggestive interrogation writers to signify the same thing as leading question. (q.
}}
A false dilemma is a type of informal fallacy in which something is falsely claimed to be an &quot;either/or&quot; situation, when in fact there is at least one additional option.
A loaded question or complex question fallacy is a question that contains a controversial or unjustified assumption (e.g.
Ignoratio elenchi, also known as irrelevant conclusion,Bishop Whately, cited by John Stuart Mill: A System of Logic. London Colchester 1959 (first: 1843), pp.
In logic, equivocation is an informal fallacy resulting from the use of a word in multiple senses throughout an argument leading to a false conclusion. Abbott and Costello's &quot;Who's on first?
In statistics, sampling bias is a bias in which a sample is collected in such a way that some members of the intended population are less likely to be included than others. It results in a biased sample, a non-random sampleMedical Dictionary - 'Sampling Bias' Retrieved on September 23, 2009 of a population (or non-human factors) in which all individuals, or instances, were not equally likely to have been selected.
Post hoc (sometimes written as post-hoc) (a shortened style of post hoc ergo propter hoc) is a fallacy within which one event is alleged to be the reason for a later event just because it occurred earlier. It is also referred to as the fallacy of the false cause or the argument from succession alone.
No true Scotsman is a kind of informal fallacy in which one attempts to protect a universal generalization from counterexamples by changing the definition in an ad hoc fashion to exclude the counterexample.No True Scotsman, Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy Rather than denying the counterexample or rejecting the original claim, this fallacy modifies the subject of the assertion to exclude the specific case or others like it by rhetoric, without reference to any specific objective rule (&quot;no  Scotsman would do such a thing&quot;; i.
A slippery slope argument (SSA), in logic, critical thinking, political rhetoric, and caselaw, is a consequentialist logical device in which a party asserts that a relatively small first step leads to a chain of related events culminating in some significant (usually negative) effect. The core of the slippery slope argument is that a specific decision under debate is likely to result in unintended consequences.
Argument from ignorance (from ), also known as appeal to ignorance (in which ignorance represents &quot;a lack of contrary evidence&quot;), is a fallacy in informal logic. It asserts that a proposition is true because it has not yet been proven false (or vice versa).
, genitive
, genitive
Law of nature or Laws of nature may refer to:
A locomotive or engine is a rail transport vehicle that provides the motive power for a train. A locomotive has no payload capacity of its own, and its sole purpose is to move the train along the tracks.
Linköping, Sweden
}}
A lighthouse is a tower, building, or other type of structure designed to emit light from a system of lamps and lenses, and to serve as a navigational aid for maritime pilots at sea or on inland waterways.
The Royal Library of Alexandria or Ancient Library of Alexandria in Alexandria, Egypt, was one of the largest and most significant libraries of the ancient world. It was dedicated to the Muses, the nine goddesses of the arts.
A library is a collection of sources of information and similar resources, made accessible to a defined community for reference or borrowing. It provides physical or digital access to material, and may be a physical building or room, or a virtual space, or both.
,
thumb|200px|right|A conceptual diagram of a local area network.
Low Saxon}}
Lanthanum is a chemical element with symbol La and atomic number 57. It is a soft, ductile, silvery-white metal that tarnishes rapidly when exposed to air and is soft enough to be cut with a knife.
Lutetium is a chemical element with symbol Lu and atomic number 71. It is a silvery white metal, which resists corrosion in dry air, but not in moist air.
Lawrencium is a synthetic chemical element with symbol Lr (formerly Lw) and atomic number 103. It is named in honor of Ernest Lawrence, inventor of the cyclotron, a device that was used to discover many artificial radioactive elements.
Lead is a chemical element that is assigned the symbol Pb (from the Latin plumbum) and the atomic number 82. It is a heavy metal that is denser than most common materials.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock, composed mainly of skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral, forams and molluscs. Its major materials are the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO3).
}} (Lao) |}}
Laos emerged from the French Colonial Empire as an independent country in 1953. Laos exists in truncated form from the thirteenth century Lao kingdom of Lan Xang.
right
thumb|A street market in [[Luang Prabang.]]
The politics of the Lao People's Democratic Republic (commonly known as Laos) takes place in the framework of a one-party socialist republic. The only legal political party is the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP).
Telecommunications in Laos are based on a network of telephone lines and radiotelephone communications in remote areas, as well as mobile phone infrastructure. The system is not well-developed.
This article concerns systems of transportation in Laos. Laos is a country in Asia, which possesses a number of modern transportation systems, including several highways and a number of airports.
Former:
The foreign relations of Laos, internationally designated by its official name as the Lao People's Democratic Republic, after the takeover by the Pathet Lao in December 1975, were characterized by a hostile posture toward the West, with the government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic aligning itself with the Soviet bloc, maintaining close ties with the Soviet Union and depending heavily on the Soviets for most of its foreign assistance. Laos also maintained a &quot;special relationship&quot; with Vietnam and formalized a 1977 treaty of friendship and cooperation that created tensions with China.
The History of Latvia began around 9000 BC with the end of the last glacial period in northern Europe. Ancient Baltic peoples arrived in the area during the second millennium BC, and four distinct tribal realms in Latvia's territory were identifiable towards the end of the first millennium AD.
thumb|right|300px|Detailed map of Latvia
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the historical territory of Latvia, including population density, ethnic background, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Latvia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. The President holds a primarily ceremonial role as Head of State.
$48 billion (PPP, 2014 est.)http://www.
Telecommunications in Latvia include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article provides an overview of the transport infrastructure of Latvia.
– 21 (RS, June 2016)
}}
(Arabic)
The history of Lebanon covers the history of the modern Republic of Lebanon and the earlier emergence of Greater Lebanon under the French Mandate for Syria and Lebanon, as well as the previous history of the region, covered by the modern state.
Lebanon is part of the North East, located at approximately 35˚N, 35˚E. Stretching along the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea, its length almost three times its width.
(110)
Lebanon is a parliamentary democratic republic within the overall framework of confessionalism, a form of consociationalism in which the highest offices are proportionately reserved for representatives from certain religious communities. The constitution grants the people the right to change their government.
This article concerns the systems of communication in Lebanon.  Lebanon possesses a number of systems of telecommunicationm.
Transportation in Lebanon varies greatly in quality from the ultramodern Beirut International Airport to poor road conditions in many parts of the country. The Lebanese civil war between 1975 and 1990 and the 2006 Lebanon War with Israel severely damaged the country's infrastructure.
The foreign policy of Lebanon reflects its geographic location, the composition of its population, and its reliance on commerce and trade. Until 2005, Lebanon's foreign policy had been heavily influenced by Syria.
thumb|Flag of Lesotho
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Lesotho, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Lesotho takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic constitutional monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Lesotho is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Lesotho include radio, television, print and online newspapers, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article concerns systems of transport in Lesotho.  As a landlocked country, Lesotho has no seaports or harbours, but does possess road, air, and limited rail infrastructure.
}}
Lesotho's geographic location makes it extremely vulnerable to political and economic developments in South Africa. Its capital is the small city of Maseru.
}}
thumb|650px|A map of Liberia.
The demographics of Liberia are examined on this page, including Liberia's population density, ethnic groups, education level, population health, economic status, religious affiliations and other demographic information.
Politics of Liberia takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic modeled on the government of the United States, whereby the President is the head of state and head of government; unlike the United States, however, Liberia is a unitary state as opposed to a federation and has a pluriform  rather than the two-party system that characterizes US politics. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$2.719 billion (PPP) (2012 est.
Communications in Liberia include the press, radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Liberia consist of railways, highways, seaports and airports.
The Armed Forces of Liberia (AFL) are the armed forces of the Republic of Liberia. Tracing its origins to a militia that was formed by the first black colonists in what is now Liberia, it was founded as the Liberian Frontier Force in 1908, and retitled in 1956.
Liberian foreign relations were traditionally stable and cordial throughout much of the 19th and 20th centuries. During the 1990s, Charles Taylor's presidency and the First and Second Liberian Civil Wars underscored Liberian relations with the Western world, the People's Republic of China, and its neighboring countries in Western Africa.
Libya is fourth in size among the countries of Africa and seventeenth among the countries of the world. It is on the Mediterranean between Egypt and Tunisia, with Niger and Chad to the south and Sudan to the southeast.
}}
Communications in Libya describes the overall environment for the radio, television, telephone, Internet, and newspaper markets in Libya.
thumb|right|250px|Traffic congestion in [[Bayda, Libya|Bayda, Libya in 2010.]]
The Armed Forces of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya consisted of the Libyan Army, Libyan Air Force and the Libyan Navy and other services including the People's Militia. In November 2010, before the Libyan Civil War in 2011, the total number of Libyan personnel was estimated at 76,000IISS Military Balance 2011, p.
}}
right|Map of the Principality of Liechtenstein
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Liechtenstein, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Liechtenstein is a principality governed under a constitutional monarchy. It has a form of mixed constitution in which political power is shared by the monarch and a democratically elected parliament.
$3.2 billion (PPP, 2009 est.
This article concerns the systems of communications in Liechtenstein.  Liechtenstein possesses a number of modern communications systems, some of which are shared with the neighbouring country of Switzerland.
Liechtenstein's foreign economic policy has been dominated by its customs union with Switzerland (and with Austria-Hungary until World War I). This union also led to its independent membership in the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) in 1991.
The history of Lithuania dates back to settlements founded many thousands of years ago, but the first written record of the name for the country dates back to 1009 AD.Gudavičius, Edvardas (1999) Lietuvos Istorija: Nuo Seniausių Laikų iki 1569 Metų (Lithuanian History: From Ancient Times to the Year 1569)  Vilnius, page 28,  Lithuanians, one of the Baltic peoples, later conquered neighboring lands and established the Grand Duchy of Lithuania in the 13th century (and also a short-lived Kingdom of Lithuania).
Lithuania is a country in Northern Europe, most populous of the Baltic states, Lithuania has  of coastline consisting of the continental coast and the &quot;Curonian Spit&quot; coast. Lithuania's major warm-water port of Klaipėda (Memel) lies at the narrow mouth of Curonian Lagoon, a shallow lagoon extending south to Kaliningrad and separated from the Baltic sea by Curonian Spit, where Kuršių Nerija National Park was established for its remarkable sand dunes.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Lithuania, including population density, ethnicity, level of education, health, economic status, and religious affiliations.
Politics of Lithuania takes place in a framework of a unitary semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Lithuania is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Lithuania is the head of government, and of a multi-party system.
This article provides an overview of telecommunications in Lithuania, including radio, television, telephones, and the Internet.
This article provides an overview of the transport infrastructure of Lithuania. For transport in the Soviet Union, see Transport in the Soviet Union.
Lithuania became a member of the United Nations on September 18, 1991, and is a signatory to a number of its organizations and other international agreements. It is also a member of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe,Lithuania's Leadership of the OSCE: Hearing before the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, One Hundred Twelfth Congress, First Session, February 16, 2011 NATO and its adjunct North Atlantic Coordinating Council, the Council of Europe, and the European Union.
The history of Luxembourg consists of the history of the country of Luxembourg and its geographical area.
right|thumb|250px|Towns and rivers in Luxembourg
The politics of Luxembourg takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Luxembourg is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is under the constitution of 1868, as amended, exercised by the government, by the Grand Duke and the Council of Government (cabinet), which consists of a prime minister and several other ministers.
€52.1/$55.
}}
Transport in Luxembourg is ensured principally by road, rail and air. There are also services along the River Moselle which forms the border with Germany.
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg has long been a prominent supporter of European political and economic integration. In efforts foreshadowing European integration, Luxembourg and Belgium in 1921 formed the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) to create an inter-exchangeable currency and a common customs regime.
A large technical system (LTS) is a system or network of enormous proportions or complexity.  The study of LTSs is a subdiscipline of history of science and technology.
Lord Peter DeathThe name Death is usually pronounced , but in Murder Must Advertise Lord Peter (investigating undercover under the name Death Bredon) says &quot;It's spelt Death. Pronounce it any way you like.
Letter}}
A lesbian is a female homosexual: a female who experiences romantic love or sexual attraction to other females.Zimmerman, p.
Lambda, Λ, λ (uppercase , lowercase ;  lam(b)da) is the 11th letter of the Greek alphabet. In the system of Greek numerals lambda has a value of 30.
Lore may refer to:
In photography, filmmaking and video production, a long shot (sometimes referred to as a full shot or, and to remove ambiguity, wide shot) typically shows the entire object or human figure and is usually intended to place it in some relation to its surroundings. These are typically shot now using wide angle cameras (approximately a 25mm lens in 35mm photography and a 10mm lens in 16mm photography.
In mathematics, the logarithm is the inverse operation to exponentiation, just as division is the inverse of multiplication and vice versa. That means the logarithm of a number is the exponent to which another fixed number, the base, must be raised to produce that number.
The Luddites were a group of English textile workers and weavers in the 19th century who destroyed weaving machinery as a form of protest. The group was protesting the use of machinery in a &quot;fraudulent and deceitful manner&quot; to get around standard labour practices.
Anarcho-communism (also known as anarchist communism, free communism, libertarian communismAccording to anarchist historian Max Nettlau, the first use of the term &quot;libertarian communism&quot; was in November 1880, when a French anarchist congress employed it to more clearly identify its doctrines.&quot;&quot;Anarchist communism is also known as anarcho-communism, communist anarchism, or, sometimes, libertarian communism.
Lagâri Hasan Çelebi was a legendary Ottoman aviator who, according to a sole account written by traveller Evliya Çelebi, made a successful manned rocket flight.
Letterboxing is the practice of transferring film shot in a widescreen aspect ratio to standard-width video formats while preserving the film's original aspect ratio.  The resulting videographic image has mattes (black bars) above and below it; these mattes are part of the image (i.
Lincoln most commonly refers to:
In anatomy, a ligament is the fibrous connective tissue that connects bones to other bones and is also known as articular ligament, articular larua, fibrous ligament, or true ligament.
Laser science or laser physics is a branch of optics that describes the theory and practice of lasers.
Lassa fever, also known as Lassa hemorrhagic fever (LHF), is a type of viral hemorrhagic fever caused by the Lassa virus. Many of those infected by the virus do not develop symptoms.
Latin is an Italic language, originally spoken in ancient Rome and its empire.
thumb|right|Librarian, [[Ballard Carnegie Library, Seattle, Washington ca. 1907]]
A leap year (also known as an intercalary year or bissextile year) is a calendar year containing one additional day (or, in the case of lunisolar calendars, a month) added to keep the calendar year synchronized with the astronomical or seasonal year. Because seasons and astronomical events do not repeat in a whole number of days, calendars that have the same number of days in each year drift over time with respect to the event that the year is supposed to track.
Laundering may refer to:
Ludovico Ariosto (; 8 September 1474 – 6 July 1533) was an Italian poet. He is best known as the author of the romance epic Orlando Furioso (1516).
In statistics, the term linear model is used in different ways according to the context. The most common occurrence is in connection with regression models and the term is often taken as synonymous with linear regression model.
In statistics,
(aged 56)
}}
}}
Life of Brian (Family Guy)}}
thumb|right|The original [[Lomo LC-A]]
}}
Leucippus (; , Leúkippos; fl. 5th cent.
Logic programming is a type of programming paradigm which is largely based on formal logic. Any program written in a logic programming language is a set of sentences in logical form, expressing facts and rules about some problem domain.
Lola Glenn Graham was born in Melbourne on 23 September 1918. She first came to public attention after winning a musical competition at age six by playing the piano.
thumb|Reflective twisted nematic [[liquid crystal display.
Latency is a time interval between the stimulation and response, or, from a more general point of view, a time delay between the cause and the effect of some physical change in the system being observed.&quot;What is Latency?
The history of public transport authorities in London details the various organisations that have been responsible for the public transport network in and around London, England from 1933 until 2000 and have used the London Transport brand. Their responsibilities have encompassed the buses, coaches, trams and the London Underground.
Light is electromagnetic radiation within a certain portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. The word usually refers to visible light, which is visible to the human eye and is responsible for the sense of sight.
In biology, lipid is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar            solvents. It comprises a group of naturally occurring molecules that include fats, waxes, sterols, fat-soluble vitamins (such as vitamins A, D, E, and K), monoglycerides, diglycerides, triglycerides, phospholipids, and others.
In mathematics, a Lie algebra (pronounced  &quot;Lee&quot;) is a vector space \mathfrak g together with a non-associative, alternating bilinear map \mathfrak g \times \mathfrak g \rightarrow \mathfrak g; (x, y) \mapsto [x, y], called the Lie bracket, satisfying the Jacobi identity.
In mathematics, a Lie group (pronounced  &quot;Lee&quot;) is a group that is also a differentiable manifold, with the property that the group operations are compatible with the smooth structure. Lie groups are named after Norwegian mathematician Sophus Lie, who laid the foundations of the theory of continuous transformation groups.
1175
Latveria is a fictional nation in the . It is depicted within the storylines of Marvel's comic titles as an isolated European country ruled by the fictional Supreme Lord Doctor Doom, supposedly located in the Banat region.
In arithmetic and number theory, the least common multiple, lowest common multiple, or smallest common multiple of two integers a and b, usually denoted by LCM(a, b), is the smallest positive integer that is divisible by both a and b.Hardy &amp; Wright, § 5.
}}
In philosophy and logic, the classical liar paradox or liar's paradox is the statement of a liar who states that they are lying: for instance, declaring that &quot;I am lying&quot; or &quot;everything I say is false&quot;. If they are indeed lying, they are telling the truth, which means they are lying.
Louchébem or loucherbem () is Parisian and Lyonnaise butchers' (French boucher) slang, similar to Pig Latin and Verlan. It originated in the mid-19th century and was in common use until the 1950s.
LCD is a liquid-crystal display, an electronic device.
Liquid crystals (LCs) are matter in a state which has properties between those of conventional liquids and those of solid crystals. For instance, a liquid crystal may flow like a liquid, but its molecules may be oriented in a crystal-like way.
A long gun is a category of firearms with longer barrels than other classes.  In small arms, a long gun is generally designed to be fired braced against the shoulder, in contrast to a handgun.
In chemistry, the law of definite proportions, sometimes called Proust's law or the law of definite composition, or law of constant composition states that a given chemical compound always contains its component elements in fixed ratio (by mass) and does not depend on its source and method of preparation. An equivalent statement is the law of constant composition, which states that all samples of a given chemical compound have the same elemental composition by mass.
In Catholic theology, Limbo (Latin [edge or boundary, referring to the &quot;edge&quot; of Hell]) is a speculative idea about the [[afterlife condition of those who die in original sin without being assigned to the Hell of the Damned. Medieval theologians of western Europe described the underworld (&quot;hell&quot;, &quot;hades&quot;, &quot;infernum&quot;) as divided into four distinct parts: Hell of the Damned,Catholic Encyclopedia: Hell: &quot;However, in the New Testament the term Gehenna is used more frequently in preference to hades, as a name for the place of punishment of the damned.
In Greek mythology, Lethe  (Greek: , Lḗthē; , ) was one of the five rivers of the underworld of Hades.  Also known as the Ameles potamos (river of unmindfulness), the Lethe flowed around the cave of Hypnos and through the Underworld, where all those who drank from it experienced complete forgetfulness.
Learning theories are conceptual frameworks describing how knowledge is absorbed, processed, and retained during learning.Simandan, D.
Long-term memory (LTM) is the stage of the dual memory model proposed by the Atkinson and Shiffrin (from Stanford University), and informative knowledge can be stored for long periods of time.
__NOTOC__
Latin declension is the patterns according to which Latin words are declined, or have their endings altered to show grammatical case and gender. Nouns, pronouns, and adjectives are declined (verbs are conjugated), and a given pattern is called a declension.
This is a list of Latin words with derivatives in English (and other modern languages).
Latin spelling, or Latin orthography, is the spelling of Latin words written in the scripts of all historical phases of Latin from Old Latin to the present. All scripts use the same alphabet, but conventional spellings may vary from phase to phase.
Latin verbs have four main patterns of conjugation. As in a number of other languages, most Latin verbs have an active voice and a passive voice.
LDS may refer to:
In computer science, an LALR parser or Look-Ahead LR parser is a simplified version of a canonical LR parser, to parse (separate and analyze) a text according to a set of production rules specified by a formal grammar for a computer language. (&quot;LR&quot; means left-to-right, rightmost derivation.
The term language center or language centre (or more accurately centers, e.g.
A fluid flowing past the surface of a body exerts a force on it. Lift is the component of this force that is perpendicular to the oncoming flow direction.
685
}}
Limit may refer to:
In Norse mythology, Loki (Anglicized ()), Loptr, or Hveðrungr is a god. Loki is the son of Fárbauti and Laufey, and the brother of Helblindi and Býleistr. By the jötunn Angrboða, Loki is the father of Hel, the wolf Fenrir, and the world serpent Jörmungandr. By his wife Sigyn, Loki is the father of Narfi and/or Nari. By the stallion Svaðilfari, Loki is the mother—giving birth in the form of a mare—to the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. In addition, Loki is referred to as the father of Váli in Prose Edda, though this source also refers to Odin as the father of Váli twice, and Váli is found mentioned as a Son of Loki only once.
In mathematics, there are many logarithmic identities.
A lost city is a settlement that fell into terminal decline and became extensively or completely uninhabited, with the consequence that the site's former significance was no longer known to the wider world. The locations of many lost cities have been forgotten, but some have been rediscovered and studied extensively by scientists.
Longships were a type of ship invented and used by the Norsemen (commonly known as the Vikings) for trade, commerce, exploration, and warfare during the Viking Age. The longship's design evolved over many centuries, beginning in the Stone Age with the invention of the umiak and continuing up until the 6th century with clinker-built ships like Nydam and Kvalsund.
thumb|230px|right|Luigi Alamanni
Louis Aleman (16 September 1450) was a French cardinal.
In computer science, LR parsers are a type of bottom-up parsers that efficiently handle deterministic context-free languages in guaranteed linear time. The LALR parsers and the SLR parsers are common variants of LR parsers.
Leningrad () is the former name of Saint Petersburg, Russia.
Lydia (Assyrian: Luddu; , ) was an Iron Age kingdom of western Asia Minor located generally east of ancient Ionia in the modern western Turkish provinces of Uşak, Manisa and inland İzmir. Its population spoke an Anatolian language known as Lydian.
The Liber Memorialis is an ancient book in Latin featuring an extremely concise summary—a kind of index—of universal history from earliest times to the reign of Trajan. It was written by Lucius Ampelius, who was possibly a tutor or schoolmaster.
Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, or Tarquin the Elder, was the legendary fifth king of Rome from 616 to 579 BC. His wife was Tanaquil.
Lucius Tarquinius Superbus (died 495 BC) was the legendary seventh and final king of Rome, reigning from 535 BC until the popular uprising in 509 that led to the establishment of the Roman Republic. He is commonly known as Tarquin the Proud, from his cognomen Superbus (Latin for &quot;proud, arrogant, lofty&quot;).
Libertarian socialism (or socialist libertarianism)Miller, Wilbur R. (2012).
Titus Livius (; 64 or 59 BCAD 12 or 17) — often rendered as Livy  in English language sources — was a Roman historian. He wrote a monumental history of Rome and the Roman people – Ab Urbe Condita Libri (Books from the Foundation of the City) – covering the period from the earliest legends of Rome before the traditional foundation in 753 BC through the reign of Augustus in Livy's own lifetime.
Labour Day (Labor Day in the United States) is an annual holiday to celebrate the achievements of workers. Labour Day has its origins in the labour union movement, specifically the  eight-hour day movement, which advocated eight hours for work, eight hours for recreation, and eight hours for rest.
Bodyline, also known as fast leg theory bowling, was a cricketing tactic devised by the English cricket team for their 1932–33 Ashes tour of Australia, specifically to combat the extraordinary batting skill of Australia's Don Bradman. England's use of a tactic perceived by some as overly aggressive or even unfair ultimately threatened diplomatic relations between the two countries before the situation was calmed.
The laws of infernal dynamics are an adage about the cursedness of the universe. Attributed to Science fiction author David Gerrold, the laws are as follows:
Latin literature includes the essays, histories, poems, plays, and other writings written in the Latin language.  Beginning around the 3rd century BC, it took two centuries to become a dominant literature of ancient Rome, with many educated Romans still reading and writing in Ancient Greek, as late as Marcus Aurelius (121–180 AD).
Leather is a durable and flexible material created by tanning animal rawhide and skin, often cattle hide. It can be produced at manufacturing scales ranging from cottage industry to heavy industry.
The Long Parliament was an English Parliament which lasted from 1640 until 1660. It followed the fiasco of the Short Parliament which had been held for three weeks during the spring of 1640, and which in its turn had followed an 11-year parliamentary absence.
A lubricant is a substance, usually organic, introduced to reduce friction between surfaces in mutual contact, which ultimately reduces the heat generated when the surfaces move. It may also have the function of transmitting forces, transporting foreign particles, or heating or cooling the surfaces.
The llama (;   or ) (Lama glama) is a domesticated South American camelid, widely used as a meat and pack animal by Andean cultures since the Pre-Columbian era.
An L cut is a variant of a split edit film editing technique in which the audio from preceding scene overlaps the picture from the following scene, so that the audio cuts after the picture, and continues playing over the beginning of the next scene.
A lexicon is the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge (such as nautical or medical).  In linguistics, a lexicon is a language's inventory of lexemes.
Lacrosse is a team sport played between two teams using a lacrosse stick and a lacrosse ball. Players use the head of the lacrosse stick to carry (called cradling), pass, and catch the ball in order to score by shooting the ball into the opponent's goal.
(1991)
Luke}}
Lonsdaleite (named in honour of Kathleen Lonsdale), also called hexagonal diamond in reference to the crystal structure, is an allotrope of carbon with a hexagonal lattice. In nature, it forms when meteorites containing graphite strike the Earth.
Lettres de cachet (, lit. &quot;letters of the sign/signet&quot;) were letters signed by the king of France, countersigned by one of his ministers, and closed with the royal seal, or cachet.
thumb|Distribution of the [[iron content (in logarithmic scale) in four dwarf neighbouring galaxies of the Milky Way]]
) or L
A linguist may be:
In mathematics, a linear map (also called a linear mapping, linear transformation or, in some contexts, linear function) is a mapping  between two modules (including vector spaces) that preserves (in the sense defined below) the operations of addition and scalar multiplication.
A Leyden jar, or Leiden jar, is a device that &quot;stores&quot; static electricity between two electrodes on the inside and outside of a glass jar.  A Leyden jar typically consists of a glass jar with metal foil cemented to the inside and the outside surfaces, and a metal terminal projecting vertically through the jar lid to make contact with the inner foil.
thumb|Lennon Wall in August 1981
Los Angeles skyline
, or colloquially ; genitive
, genitive
, genitive
A lysosome is a membrane-bound organelle found in nearly all animal cells. They are spherical vesicles which contain hydrolytic enzymes that can break down virtually all kinds of biomolecules.
thumb|left|A leg spin or leg break delivery.
thumb|A Knight machine preserved in the [[MIT Museum.]]
A learning object is &quot;a collection of content items, practice items, and assessment items that are combined based on a single learning objective&quot;.  The term is credited to Wayne Hodgins, and dates from a working group in 1994 bearing the name.
The name Labour (or Labor) Party, or similar, is used by political parties around the world, particularly in countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. They are usually, but not exclusively, social-democratic or democratic-socialist and traditionally allied to trade unions and the labour movement.
* American Airlines
The La Tène culture (; ) was a European Iron Age culture named after the archaeological site of La Tène on the north side of Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland, where thousands of objects had been deposited in the lake, as was discovered after the water level dropped in 1857.Or just &quot;La Tene&quot; in English.
In economics, the Lorenz curve is a graphical representation of the distribution of income or of wealth. It was developed by Max O.
Literate programming is a programming paradigm introduced by Donald Knuth in which a program is given as an explanation of the program logic in a natural language, such as English, interspersed with snippets of macros and traditional source code, from which a compilable source code can be generated.
The logistic map is a polynomial mapping (equivalently, recurrence relation) of degree 2, often cited as an archetypal example of how complex, chaotic behaviour can arise from very simple non-linear dynamical equations. The map was popularized in a seminal 1976 paper by the biologist Robert May, in part as a discrete-time demographic model analogous to the logistic equation first created by Pierre François Verhulst.
Levante|Levent}}
thumb|Mandates in the Middle East and Africa, which included:
The Loudon Classic, held at the New Hampshire Motor Speedway (formerly Bryar Motorsport Park and New Hampshire International Speedway) is the longest running motorcycle race in the United States, and is held every year on Father's Day.  While it is popularly known as Laconia, the location of the race was moved from Belknap Recreation Area to Loudon in 1964.
Many scientific, military, medical and commercial laser applications have been developed since the invention of the laser in 1958. The coherency, high monochromaticity, and ability to reach extremely high powers are all properties which allow for these specialized applications.
thumb|left|A left-arm orthodox spin delivery
A laser is constructed from three principal parts:
In logic and mathematics, and is the truth-functional operator of logical conjunction; the and of a set of operands is true if and only if all of its operands are true. The logical connective that represents this operator is typically written as  or .
In logic, a logical connective (also called a logical operator) is a symbol or word used to connect two or more sentences (of either a formal or a natural language) in a grammatically valid way, such that the value of the compound sentence produced depends only on that of the original sentences and on the meaning of the connective.
Propositional calculus (also called propositional logic, sentential calculus, sentential logic, or sometimes zeroth-order logic) is the branch of logic concerned with the study of propositions (whether they are true or false) that are formed by other propositions with the use of logical connectives, and how their value depends on the truth value of their components.
In programming language theory, lazy evaluation, or call-by-need is an evaluation strategy which delays the evaluation of an expression until its value is needed (non-strict evaluation) and which also avoids repeated evaluations (sharing). The sharing can reduce the running time of certain functions by an exponential factor over other non-strict evaluation strategies, such as call-by-name.
US$9.44 billion (2005)
Lupercalia was a very ancient, possibly pre-Roman pastoral annual festival, observed in the city of Rome, each year, on February 15, to avert evil spirits and purify the city, releasing health and fertility. Lupercalia subsumed Februa, an earlier-origin spring cleansing ritual held on the same date, which gives the month of February (Februarius) its name.
Atheism is, in a broad sense, the lack of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is simply the absence of belief that any deities exist.
This is a list of notable Buddhists, encompassing all the major branches of the religion (ie in Buddhism), and including interdenominational and eclectic Buddhist practitioners. This list includes both formal teachers of Buddhism, and people notable in other areas who are publicly Buddhist or who have espoused Buddhism.
Listed here are persons who have identified themselves as theologically agnostic. Also included are individuals who have expressed the view that the veracity of a god's existence is unknown or inherently unknowable.
In computer science, a linked list is a linear collection of data elements, in which linear order is not given by their physical placement in memory. Each pointing to the next node by means of a pointer.
In electronics, a logic gate is an idealized or physical device implementing a Boolean function; that is, it performs a logical operation on one or more binary inputs and produces a single binary output. Depending on the context, the term may refer to an ideal logic gate, one that has for instance zero rise time and unlimited fan-out, or it may refer to a non-ideal physical deviceJaeger, Microelectronic Circuit Design, McGraw-Hill 1997, , pp.
}}
A land mine is an explosive device concealed under or on the ground and designed to destroy or disable enemy targets, ranging from combatants to vehicles and tanks, as they pass over or near it. Such a device is typically detonated automatically by way of pressure when a target steps on it or drives over it, although other detonation mechanisms are also sometimes used.
Many countries and subnational political entities have libertarian political parties. Although these parties may describe themselves as &quot;libertarian,&quot; their ideologies differ considerably and not all of them support all elements of the libertarian agenda.
Loa (also spelled lwa) are the spirits of Haitian Vodou and Louisiana Voodoo.Anthony B.
Labour economics seeks to understand the functioning and dynamics of the markets for wage labour.
Lammas Day (Anglo-Saxon hlaf-mas, &quot;loaf-mass&quot;), is a holiday celebrated in some English-speaking countries in the Northern Hemisphere, usually between 1 August and 1 September. It is a festival to mark the annual wheat harvest, and is the first harvest festival of the year.
Manager]]
The most common relative directions are left, right, forward(s), backward(s), up, and down. No absolute direction corresponds to any of the relative directions.
Possible Late Triassic record
thumb|right|100px|[[Charles Sanders Peirce]]
The Book of Leviticus (; from Greek Λευιτικόν, Leuitikon — from rabbinic Hebrew torat kohanim) is the third book of the Jewish Bible ( Vayikra/Wayyiqrā) and of the Old Testament; its Hebrew name comes from its first word vayikraˈ, &quot;He God] called.&quot; The English name is from the Latin Leviticus, taken in turn from Greek and a reference to the Levites, the tribe of Aaron, from whom the Kohanim ('&quot;priests&quot;) descended.
For greater detail, see Distribution of languages on earth.
right|thumb|200px|Looe Island, Cornwall
This is an incomplete list of Christian saints in alphabetical order by Christian name, but, where known and given, a surname, location, or personal attribute (included as part of the name) may affect the ordering.
In measure theory, the Lebesgue measure, named after French mathematician Henri Lebesgue, is the standard way of assigning a measure to subsets of n-dimensional Euclidean space. For n = 1, 2, or 3, it coincides with the standard measure of length, area, or volume.
SS Lake Champlain|US Naval vessels with this name|USS Lake ChamplainUSS Lake Champlain}}
Lambda calculus (also written as λ-calculus) is a formal system in mathematical logic for expressing computation based on function abstraction and application using variable binding and substitution. It is a universal model of computation that can be used to simulate any single-taped Turing machine and was first introduced by mathematician Alonzo Church in the 1930s as part of his research of the foundations of mathematics.
In information technology, lossy compression or irreversible compression is the class of data encoding methods that uses inexact approximations and partial data discarding to represent the content. These techniques are used to reduce data size for storage, handling, and transmitting content.
Lossless compression is a class of data compression algorithms that allows the original data to be perfectly reconstructed from the compressed data.  By contrast, lossy compression permits reconstruction only of an approximation of the original data, though this usually improves compression rates (and therefore reduces file sizes).
A Linux distribution (often abbreviated as distro) is an operating system made from a software collection, which is based upon the Linux kernel and, often, a package management system. Linux users usually obtain their operating system by downloading one of the Linux distributions, which are available for a wide variety of systems ranging from embedded devices (for example, OpenWrt) and personal computers (for example, Linux Mint) to powerful supercomputers (for example, Rocks Cluster Distribution).
Louis Andriessen (; born 6 June 1939) is a Dutch composer and pianist based in Amsterdam. He is a lecturer at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague.
LambdaMOO is an online community of the variety called a MOO.  It is the oldest MOO today.
The lorica segmentata (segmented cuirass) is a type of personal armour used by soldiers of the Roman Empire, consisting of metal strips (&quot;girth hoops&quot; fashioned into circular bands), fastened to internal leather straps. The Latin name was first used in the 16th century; the ancient form is unknown.
-
LGB may refer to:
The Libro de los Juegos, (&quot;Book of games&quot;), or Libro de axedrez, dados e tablas, (&quot;Book of chess, dice and tables&quot;, in Old Spanish) was commissioned by Alfonso X of Castile, Galicia and León and completed in his scriptorium in Toledo in 1283,Sonja Musser Golladay, &quot;Los Libros de Acedrex Dados E Tablas: Historical, Artistic and Metaphysical Dimensions of Alfonso X’s Book of Games&quot; (PhD diss., University of Arizona, 2007), 31.
Land is the solid surface of the Earth that is not covered by water. It may also refer to:
In Greek mythology, the labyrinth (Greek: λαβύρινθος labyrinthos) was an elaborate structure designed and built by the legendary artificer Daedalus for King Minos of Crete at Knossos. Its function was to hold the Minotaur eventually killed by the hero Theseus.
in Chicago, Illinois
== ',-,&quot; ==
The LaGrand case was a legal action heard before the International Court of Justice (ICJ) which concerned the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. In the case the ICJ found that its own temporary court orders were legally binding and that the rights contained in the convention could not be denied by the application of domestic legal procedures.
This is a list of memorials to Lyndon B. Johnson, 36th president of the United States.
In the Netherlands, Liberation Day () is celebrated each year on May the 5th to mark the end of the occupation by Nazi Germany during World War II.
Light pollution, also known as photopollution, is the presence of anthropogenic light in the night environment. It is exacerbated by excessive, misdirected or obtrusive uses of light, but even carefully used light fundamentally alters natural conditions.
In celestial mechanics, the Lagrangian points (; also Lagrange points, L-points, or libration points) are positions in an orbital configuration of two large bodies where a small object affected only by gravity can maintain a stable position relative to the two large bodies. The Lagrange points mark positions where the combined gravitational pull of the two large masses provides precisely the centripetal force required to orbit with them.
A lucid dream is a dream during which the dreamer is aware of dreaming. During lucid dreaming, the dreamer may be able to exert some degree of control over the dream characters, narrative, and environment.
Lyric may refer to:
Oleg Losev (1927)James R. Biard (1961)US Patent 3293513, &quot;Semiconductor Radiant Diode&quot;, James R.
In computing, a legacy system is an old method, technology, computer system, or application program, &quot;of, relating to, or being a previous or outdated computer system.&quot;  Often a pejorative term, referencing a system as &quot;legacy&quot; means that it paved the way for the standards that would follow it.
Lamentations may refer to:
A lunar eclipse occurs when the Moon passes directly behind the Earth into its umbra (shadow). This can occur only when the sun, Earth, and moon are aligned (in &quot;syzygy&quot;) exactly, or very closely so, with the Earth in the middle.
The Liber Pontificalis (Latin for 'pontifical book' or Book of the Popes) is a book of biographies of popes from Saint Peter until the 15th century. The original publication of the Liber Pontificalis stopped with Pope Adrian II (867–872) or Pope Stephen V (885–891), but it was later supplemented in a different style until Pope Eugene IV (1431–1447) and then Pope Pius II (1458–1464).
Lugh or Lug (; modern Irish: Lú ) is an important god of Irish mythology. A member of the Tuatha Dé Danann, Lugh is portrayed as a youthful warrior hero, a king and saviour.
The lanthanide  or lanthanoid  series of chemical elementsThe current IUPAC recommendation is that the name lanthanoid be used rather than lanthanide, as the suffix &quot;-ide&quot; is preferred for negative ions, whereas the suffix &quot;-oid&quot; indicates similarity to one of the members of the containing family of elements. However, lanthanide is still favored in most (~90%) scientific articles  and is currently adopted on Wikipedia.
Lucifer (, ), is a name that, according to dictionaries of the English language,}}}}}} refers to the Devil (Satan) or to the planet Venus when appearing as the morning star.
}}
The Lower Peninsula of Michigan is the southern of the two major landmasses of the U.S.
Lens}}
LDP may mean:
Labour or Labor may refer to:
The Library of Congress Classification (LCC) is a system of library classification developed by the Library of Congress. It is used by most research and academic libraries in the U.
thumb|A library book shelf in [[Hong Kong arranged using the Dewey classification]]
A person may be considered to be a transgender person if their gender identity is inconsistent or not culturally associated with the sex they were assigned at birth, and consequently also with the gender role and social status that is typically associated with that sex. They may have, or may intend to establish, a new gender status that accords with their gender identity.
In biochemistry, a ligase is an enzyme that can catalyze the joining of two large molecules by forming a new chemical bond, usually with accompanying hydrolysis of a small pendant chemical group on one of the larger molecules or the enzyme catalyzing the linking together of two compounds, e.g.
The last rites, in Catholicism, are the last prayers and ministrations given to many Catholics when possible shortly before death. The last rites go by various names and include various practices in different Catholic traditions.
In chemistry, the law of multiple proportions is one of the basic laws of stoichiometry used to establish the atomic theory, alongside the law of conservation of mass (matter) and the law of definite proportions.  It is sometimes called Dalton's Law after its discoverer, the British chemist John Dalton,http://groups.
The law of averages is the law that a particular outcome or event is inevitable or certain simply because it is statistically possible. Depending on context or application it can be considered a valid common-sense observation or a misunderstanding of probability.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to linguistics:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to law:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to literature:
Lindow Man, also known as Lindow II and (in jest) as Pete Marsh, is the preserved bog body of a man discovered in a peat bog at Lindow Moss near Wilmslow in Cheshire, North West England. The human remains were found on 1 August 1984 by commercial peat-cutters.
Lego (; stylized as LEGO) is a line of plastic construction toys that are manufactured by The Lego Group, a privately held company based in Billund, Denmark. The company's flagship product, Lego, consists of colourful interlocking plastic bricks accompanying an array of gears, figurines called minifigures, and various other parts.
Luminance is a photometric measure of the  luminous intensity per unit area of light travelling in a given direction. It describes the amount of light that passes through, is emitted or reflected from a particular area, and falls within a given solid angle.
A lunar calendar is a calendar based upon cycles of the Moon's phases (synodic months), in contrast to solar calendars whose annual cycles are based only directly upon the solar year. The most commonly used calendar, the Gregorian calendar, is a solar calendar system which originally evolved out of a lunar calendar system.
Loran-C was a hyperbolic radio navigation system which allowed a receiver to determine its position by listening to low frequency radio signals transmitted by fixed land-based radio beacons. Loran-C combined two different techniques to provide a signal that was both long-range and highly accurate, traits that had formerly been at odds.
Looney|and|Luni (disambiguation)Luni}}
Linear (or Longitudinal) Timecode (LTC) is an encoding of SMPTE timecode data in an audio signal, as defined in SMPTE 12M specification. The audio signal is commonly recorded on a VTR track or other storage media.  The bits are encoded using the biphase mark code (also known as FM):  a 0 bit has a single transition at the start of the bit period.  A 1 bit has two transitions, at the beginning and middle of the period.  This encoding is self-clocking. Each frame is terminated by a 'sync word' which has a special predefined sync relationship with any video or film content.
A lunisolar calendar is a calendar in many cultures whose date indicates both the moon phase and the time of the solar year. If the solar year is defined as a tropical year, then a lunisolar calendar will give an indication of the season; if it is taken as a sidereal year, then the calendar will predict the constellation near which the full moon may occur.
The labarum () was a vexillum (military standard) that displayed the &quot;Chi-Rho&quot; symbol ☧, a christogram formed from the first two Greek letters of the word &quot;Christ&quot; (, or Χριστός) — Chi (χ) and Rho (ρ).In Unicode, the Chi-Rho symbol is encoded at U+2627 (☧), and for Coptic at U+2CE9 (⳩).
Lucius Caecilius Firmianus Lactantius (c. 250 – c.
Laocoön (;}}}} , ), the son of Acoetes, is a figure in Greek and Roman mythology and the Epic Cycle.&quot;Laocoon, son of Acoetes, brother of Anchises, and priest of Apollo...
Life is a characteristic distinguishing physical entities having biological processes, such as signaling and self-sustaining processes, from those that do not, either because such functions have ceased, or because they never had such functions and are classified as [Various forms of life exist, such as plant]s, [[animals, fungi, protists, archaea, and bacteria. The criteria can at times be ambiguous and may or may not define viruses, viroids, or potential artificial life as &quot;living&quot;.
&quot;La Espero&quot; () is a poem written by Polish-Jewish oculist and doctor L. L.
The Canadian one dollar coin, commonly called the loonie (), is a gold-coloured one-dollar coin introduced in 1987. It bears images of a common loon, a bird which is common and well known in Canada, on the reverse, and of Queen Elizabeth II on the obverse.
thumb|upright|A [[sphere in Stokes flow, at very low Reynolds number. An object moving through a fluid experiences a force in the direction opposite to its motion.
Logical positivism and logical empiricism, which together formed neopositivism, was a movement in Western philosophy whose central thesis was verificationism, a theory of knowledge which asserted that only statements verifiable through empirical observation are cognitively meaningful.  The movement flourished in the 1920s and 1930s in several European centers.
In physics, the Lorentz transformation (or transformations) are coordinate transformations between two coordinate frames that move at constant velocity relative to each other. The transformations are named after the Dutch physicist Hendrik Lorentz.
thumb|327px|The luminiferous aether: it was hypothesised that the Earth moves through a &quot;medium&quot; of aether that carries light
Lame}}
Basis}}
Linear algebra is the branch of mathematics concerning vector spaces and linear mappings between such spaces.  It includes the study of lines, planes, and subspaces, but is also concerned with properties common to all vector spaces.
The labia majora (singular: labium majus) are two prominent longitudinal cutaneous folds that extend downward and backward from the mons pubis to the perineum. Together with the labia minora they form the labia of the vulva.
The labia minora (the Latin for smaller lips, singular: labium minus &quot;smaller lip&quot;), also known as the inner labia, inner lips, vaginal lips or nymphae,nymphae. Dictionary.
Lithography () is a method of printing originally based on the immiscibility of oil and water.Weaver, Peter.
Library management is a sub-discipline of institutional management that focuses on specific issues faced by libraries and library management professionals. Library management encompasses normal managerial tasks, as well as intellectual freedom and fundraising responsibilities.
thumb|350px|Self-yew English longbow, 6 ft 6 [[inch|in (1.98 m) long, 470 N (105 lbf) draw force.
Loch () is the Irish, Scottish Gaelic and Scots word for a lake or for a sea inlet. It is cognate with the Manx lough, Cornish logh, and the Welsh word for lake, llyn.
Livonia (, , , German and Scandinavian languages: , Latvian and , , archaic English Livland, Liwlandia; ), a historic region on the eastern shores of the Baltic Sea, was once the land of the Finnic Livonians inhabiting the principal ancient Livonian County Metsepole with its center at Turaida (in present-day Latvia). The most prominent ruler of ancient Livonia, Caupo of Turaida, died in 1217.
Lung tumor}}
These are lists of incumbents (individuals holding offices or positions), including heads of states or of subnational entities.
Literacy is traditionally understood as the ability to read, write, and use arithmetic.&quot;Literate.
}}
Leda and similar may refer to:
thumb|320px|right|Leda and the Swan, a 16th-century [[Leda and the Swan (Michelangelo)|copy after a lost painting by Michelangelo (National Gallery, London)]]
}}
Legion may refer to:
A leap second is a one-second adjustment that is occasionally applied to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) in order to keep its time of day close to the mean solar time, or UT1. Without such a correction, time reckoned by Earth's rotation drifts away from atomic time because of irregularities in the Earth's rate of rotation.
Canada
Lucius Afranius was an ancient Roman comic poet, who lived at the beginning of the 1st century BC.
Laparoscopic surgery, also called minimally invasive surgery (MIS), bandaid surgery, or keyhole surgery, is a modern surgical technique in which operations are performed far from their location through small incisions (usually 0.5–1.
Lexicography is divided into two separate but equally important groups:
Law enforcement is any system by which some members of society act in an organized manner to enforce the law by discovering, deterring, rehabilitating, or punishing people who violate the rules and norms governing that society.New Law Journal - Volume 123, Part 1 - Page 358, 1974 Although the term may encompass entities such as courts and prisons, it is most frequently applied to those who directly engage in patrols or surveillance to dissuade and discover criminal activity, and those who investigate crimes and apprehend offenders,Kären M.
Libido (), colloquially known as sex drive, is a person's overall sexual drive or desire for sexual activity. Sex drive is influenced by biological, psychological and social factors.
}}
A lexeme () is a unit of lexical meaning that exists regardless of the number of inflectional endings it may have or the number of words it may contain. It is a basic unit of meaning, and the headwords of a dictionary are all lexemes.
The Lord's Prayer (also called the Our Father or Pater Noster, among other names) is a venerated Christian prayer that, according to the New Testament, Jesus taught as the way to pray.&quot;Pray then in this way&quot; (Matthew 6:9 NRSV); &quot;When you pray, say&quot; (Luke 11:2 NRSV)
The Lost Generation was the generation that came of age during World War I. Demographers William Strauss and Neil Howe outlined their Strauss–Howe generational theory using 1883–1900 as birth years for this generation.
Left-wing politics supports social equality and egalitarianism, often in opposition to social hierarchy and social inequality. It typically involves a concern for those in society whom its adherents perceive as disadvantaged relative to others (prioritarianism), as well as a belief that there are unjustified inequalities that need to be reduced or abolished (by advocating for social justice).
{|
Lucretia () or Lucrece (; died ) was an ancient Roman woman whose fate played a vital role in the transition of Roman government from the Roman Kingdom to the Roman Republic. While there were no contemporary sources, accounts from Roman historian Livy (Livius) and Greek-Roman historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus from the time of Emperor Caesar Augustus (23 September 63 BC – 19 August 14 AD) agreed that there was such a woman and that her suicide after being raped by an Etruscan king's son was the immediate cause of the anti-monarchist rebellion that overthrew the monarchy.
The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol  (LDAP; ) is an open, vendor-neutral, industry standard application protocol for accessing and maintaining distributed directory information services over an Internet Protocol (IP) network.  Directory services play an important role in developing intranet and Internet applications by allowing the sharing of information about users, systems, networks, services, and applications throughout the network.
Latina is the feminine form of the term Latino.
Latino ( or )Latino. (2012).
or
Lynx is a programming language for large distributed networks, using remote procedure calls. It was developed by the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1984 for the Charlotte multicomputer operating system.
In mathematics, and more specifically in calculus, L'Hôpital's rule or L'Hospital's rule () uses derivatives to help evaluate limits involving indeterminate forms.  Application (or repeated application) of the rule often converts an indeterminate form to an expression that can be evaluated by substitution, allowing easier evaluation of the limit.
Lexicology is the part of linguistics which studies words. This may include
In geometric measurements, length is the most extended dimension of an object.Princeton.
frame|left|Trajectory of a left-arm unorthodox spin delivery
Below are lists of newspapers organized by continent.
Larousse Gastronomique () is an encyclopedia of gastronomy. The majority of the book is about French cuisine, and contains recipes for French dishes and cooking techniques.
The LEO I (Lyons Electronic Office I) was the first computer used for commercial business applications.
Laurence (died 2 February 619) was the second Archbishop of Canterbury from about 604 to 619. He was a member of the Gregorian mission sent from Italy to England to Christianise the Anglo-Saxons from their native Anglo-Saxon paganism, although the date of his arrival is disputed.
&quot;Leaf by Niggle&quot; is a short story written by J. R.
Leet (or &quot;1337&quot;), also known as eleet or leetspeak, is an alternative alphabet for many languages that is used primarily on the Internet. It uses some characters to replace others in ways that play on the similarity of their glyphs via reflection or other resemblance.
Lud or LUD may refer to:
Lois Lane is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster, she first appeared in Action Comics #1 (June 1938).
In computing, a linker or link editor is a computer program that takes one or more object files generated by a compiler and combines them into a single executable file, library file, or another 'object' file.
In number theory, the Legendre symbol is a multiplicative function with values 1, −1, 0 that is a quadratic character modulo an odd prime number p: its value on a (nonzero) quadratic residue mod p is 1 and on a non-quadratic residue (non-residue) is −1. Its value on zero is 0.
The following is a list of algorithms along with one-line descriptions for each.
Linear prediction is a mathematical operation where future values of a discrete-time signal are estimated as a linear function of previous samples.
In Greek mythology, Leto (;  Lētṓ; Λατώ, Lātṓ in Dorian Greek, etymology and meaning disputed) is a daughter of the Titans Coeus and Phoebe, the sister of Asteria,Hesiod, Theogony 403. and the mother, by Zeus, of Apollo and Artemis.
La Malinche (; c. 1496 or c.
In public transit, a limited-stop bus, tram, or train service is a service that stops less frequently than local service.  The term is normally used on routes with a mixture of fast and slow services, and can differ in meaning, depending on how it is used by different transit agencies.
Limburg or Limbourg may refer to:
Limburg}}
Leon, Léon (French) or León (Spanish) may refer to:
In coordination chemistry, a ligand or ; both are very common.}} is an ion] or [[molecule (functional group) that binds to a central metal atom to form a coordination complex.
Lincos (an abbreviation of the Latin phrase lingua cosmica) is a constructed language first described in 1960 by Dr. Hans Freudenthal in his book Lincos: Design of a Language for Cosmic Intercourse, Part 1.
Lascaux, (, &quot;Lascaux Cave&quot;; , ) is the setting of a complex of caves near the village of Montignac, in the department of Dordogne in southwestern France. Over 600  parietal wall paintings decorate the interior walls and ceilings of the cave.
Alexander Joseph &quot;Lex&quot; Luthor is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. Created by Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, Lex Luthor first appeared in Action Comics #23 (April 1940) and has since endured as the archenemy of Superman.
}}
The term Lebanon War can refer to any of the following wars, fought in Lebanon:
}}
In mathematics, the Laplace transform is an integral transform named after its discoverer Pierre-Simon Laplace ().  It takes a function of a real variable  (often time) to a function of a complex variable  (frequency).
A liberal arts college is a college with an emphasis on undergraduate study in the liberal arts and sciences.  A liberal arts college aims to impart a broad general knowledge and develop general intellectual capacities, in contrast to a professional, vocational, or technical curriculum.
Language acquisition is the process by which humans acquire the capacity to perceive and comprehend language, as well as to produce and use words and sentences to communicate. Language acquisition is one of the quintessential human traits, because non-humans do not communicate by using language.
Left Behind is a series of 16 best-selling religious fiction novels by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins, dealing with Christian dispensationalist End Times: the pretribulation, premillennial, Christian eschatological interpretation of the Biblical apocalypse.
Lollardy (Lollardry, Lollardism) was a pre-Protestant religious movement that existed from the mid-14th century to the English Reformation. It was initially led by John Wycliffe,.
}}
A liqueur  ( or ) is an alcoholic beverage made from a distilled spirit that has been flavored with fruit, cream, herbs, spices, flowers or nuts and bottled with added sugar or other sweetener (such as high-fructose corn syrup). Liqueurs are typically quite sweet; they are usually not aged for long after the ingredients are mixed, but may have resting periods during their production to allow flavors to marry.
Lilith (;  Lîlîṯ) is a figure in Jewish mythology, developed earliest in the Babylonian Talmud (3rd to 5th centuries). Lilith is a dangerous demon of the night, who is sexually wanton, and who steals babies in the darkness.
In physics (particularly in electromagnetism) the Lorentz force is the combination of electric and magnetic force on a point charge due to electromagnetic fields. A particle of charge q moving with velocity v in the presence of an electric field E and a magnetic field B experiences a force
In mathematics, a &quot;helping theorem&quot; or lemma (plural lemmata or lemmas) is a proved proposition which is used as a stepping stone to a larger result rather than as a statement of interest by itself.  The word derives from the Ancient Greek [Greek|λῆμμα] (&quot;anything which is received, such as a gift, profit, or a bribe&quot;).
This list of Macintosh models grouped by CPU type contains all CPUs used by Apple Inc. for their Macintosh computers.
Jonathan Smeeton is a British lighting designer who has also worked under the name of Liquid Len.
In toxicology, the median lethal dose, LD50 (abbreviation for &quot;lethal dose, 50%&quot;), LC50 (lethal concentration, 50%) or LCt50 is a measure of the lethal dose of a toxin, radiation, or pathogen. The value of LD50 for a substance is the dose required to kill half the members of a tested population after a specified test duration.
Lactase is an enzyme produced by many organisms. It is located in the brush border of the small intestine of humans and other mammals.
}}
The flipper is the name of a particular bowling delivery used in cricket, generally by a leg spin bowler. In essence it is a back spin ball.
Labour law (also known as labor law or employment law) mediates the relationship between workers, employing entities, trade unions and the government. Collective labour law relates to the tripartite relationship between employee, employer and union.
}}
Ludo ,  (from Latin ludo, &quot;I play&quot;) is a strategy board game for two to four players, in which the players race their four tokens from start to finish according to the rolls of a single die. Like other cross and circle games, Ludo is derived from the Indian game Pachisi, but simpler.
Lotus may refer to:
thumb|350px|Human life expectancy at birth, measured by region, between 1950 and 2050
Lesser Poland (Polish: Małopolska, Latin: Polonia Minor) is a historical region (dzielnica) of Poland; its capital is the city of Kraków.
Long-Term Capital Management L.P.
Liberal Arts, Inc|the 2012 film|Liberal Arts (film)}}
A lateral is an l-like consonant in which the airstream proceeds along the sides of the tongue, but it is blocked by the tongue from going through the middle of the mouth.
In phonetics, liquids or liquid consonants are a class of consonants consisting of lateral consonants like 'l' together with rhotics like 'r'.Ladefoged and Maddieson (1996), p.
In the Pashtunwali, a code of laws of the Pashtun peoples living in areas of Afghanistan and Pakistan and neighboring countries, loya jirga (, &quot;grand assembly&quot;) is a special type of jirga that is mainly organized for choosing a new head of state in case of sudden death, adopting a new constitution, or to settle national or regional issue such as war. It predates modern-day written or fixed laws and is mostly favored by the Pashtun people but to a lesser extent by other nearby groups that have been influenced by Pashtuns (historically known as Afghans).
Leninism is the political theory for the organisation of a revolutionary vanguard party and the achievement of a dictatorship of the proletariat, as political prelude to the establishment of socialism.The New Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought Third Edition (1999) pp.
The Legion of Merit (LOM) is a military award of the United States Armed Forces that is given for exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of outstanding services and achievements. The decoration is issued to members of the seven uniformed services of the United StatesNote: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned Officer Corps Amendments Act of 2012 amended the Legion of Merit to be awarded to any uniformed service.
In computer programming, lint is a Unix utility that flags some suspicious and non-portable constructs (likely to be bugs) in C language source code; generically, lint or a linter is any tool that flags suspicious usage in software written in any computer language.  The term lint-like behavior is sometimes applied to the process of flagging suspicious language usage.
This is an index to articles listing battles. List of battles (alphabetical) gives a global list.
thumb|[[Guppy fry]]
thumb|270px|right|[[Capitoline Wolf|Lupa Capitolina (&quot;The Capitoline Wolf&quot;): The she-wolf is of unknown origin, the suckling twins were added circa 1500]]
Lazio (, ; ; ) is one of the 20 administrative regions of Italy. Situated in the central peninsular section of the country, it has almost 5.
Los Alamos usually refers to Los Alamos, New Mexico, a townsite in Los Alamos County, New Mexico. Los Alamos may also refer to:
Luke the Evangelist (, Loukãs) is one of the Four Evangelists—the four traditionally ascribed authors of the canonical Gospels. The early church fathers ascribed to him authorship of both the Gospel according to Luke and the book of Acts of the Apostles, which would mean Luke contributed over a quarter of the text of the New Testament, more than any other author.
}}
This list includes European countries and regions that were part of the Roman Empire, or that were given Latin place names in historical references. As a large portion of the latter were only created during the Middle Ages, often based on scholarly etiology, this is not to be confused with a list of the actual names modern regions and settlements bore during the classical era.
, ,
thumb|Statue of Laurens Janszoon Coster on the Grote Markt in [[Haarlem, where he was born. He holds the letter &quot;A&quot; up high.
The International Numbering System for Food Additives (INS) is a European-based naming system for food additives, aimed at providing a short designation of what may be a lengthy actual name.&quot;Class Names and the International Numbering System for Food Additives&quot;, CAC/GL 36-1989&lt;, Adopted in 1989, Revision 2008.
Wilhelm Ostwald’s dilution law is a relationship between the dissociation constant  and the degree of dissociation  of a weak electrolyte. The law takes the form
}}
Laika (; c. 1954 – November 3, 1957) was a Soviet space dog who became one of the first animals in space, and the first animal to orbit the Earth.
A mural is any piece of artwork painted or applied directly on a wall, ceiling or other permanent surface. A distinguishing characteristic of mural painting is that the architectural elements of the given space are harmoniously incorporated into the picture.
Microeconomics (from Greek prefix mikro- meaning &quot;small&quot;) is a branch of economics that studies the behavior of individuals and firms in making decisions regarding the allocation of scarce resources and the interactions among these individuals and firms.
Macroeconomics (from the Greek prefix makro- meaning &quot;large&quot; and economics) is a branch of economics dealing with the performance, structure, behavior, and decision-making of an economy as a whole. This includes
The Motion Picture Patents Company (MPPC, also known as the Edison Trust), founded in December 1908 and terminated 7 years later in 1915 after conflicts within the industry, was a trust  of all the major American film companies (Edison, Biograph, Vitagraph, Essanay, Selig Polyscope, Lubin Manufacturing, Kalem Company, Star Film Paris, American Pathé), the leading film distributor (George Kleine) and the biggest supplier of raw film stock, Eastman Kodak. The MPPC ended the domination of foreign films on American screens, standardized the manner in which films were distributed and exhibited in America, and improved the quality of American motion pictures by internal competition.
MD5 is prone to length extension attacks.
s card back design
Mathematics (from Greek μάθημα máthēma, &quot;knowledge, study, learning&quot;; often shortened to maths and math) is the study of topics such as quantity (numbers), structure, space, and change. There is a range of views among mathematicians and philosophers as to the exact scope and definition of mathematics.
Manhattan is a borough of New York City, located primarily on Manhattan Island.
In the history of Europe, the Middle Ages or Medieval Period lasted from the 5th to the 15th century. It began with the fall of the Western Roman Empire and merged into the Renaissance and the Age of Discovery.
The median is the value separating the higher half of a data sample, a population, or a probability distribution, from the lower half. For a data set, it may be thought of as the &quot;middle&quot; value.
Music is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time. The common elements of music are pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, meter, and articulation), dynamics (loudness and softness), and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture (which are sometimes termed the &quot;color&quot; of a musical sound).
Mode ( meaning &quot;manner, tune, measure, due measure, rhythm, melody&quot;) may refer to:
A mouse (plural: mice) is a small rodent characteristically having a pointed snout, small rounded ears, a body-length scaly tail and a high breeding rate. The best known mouse species is the common house mouse (Mus musculus).
Multics (Multiplexed Information and Computing Service) is an influential early time-sharing operating system, based around the concept of a single-level memory. Virtually all modern operating systems are heavily influenced by Multics; often through Unix, either directly (Linux, macOS) or indirectly (Microsoft Windows).
Marxist film theory is one of the oldest forms of film theory.
Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun.
(e.g.
Early Miocene – Recent
&quot;America in Miniature&quot;
(English: &quot;If you seek a pleasant peninsula, look about you&quot;)
A minimum wage is the lowest remuneration that employers can legally pay their workers. Equivalently, it is the price floor below which workers may not sell their labor.
Mullet may refer to:
Macbeth (; full title The Tragedy of Macbeth) is a tragedy by William Shakespeare; it is thought to have been first performed in 1606.For the first performance in 1606, see Gurr (1992, 238), Thomson (1992, 64), and Wickham (1969, 231); for the date of composition, see Brooke (1990, 1) and Clark and Mason (2015, 13).
A mental event is anything which happens within the mind or mind substitute of a conscious individual. Examples include thoughts, feelings, decisions, dreams, and realizations.
A monopoly (from Greek μόνος mónos [&quot;alone&quot; or &quot;single&quot;] and πωλεῖν pōleîn [&quot;to sell&quot;]) exists when a specific person or enterprise is the only supplier of a particular commodity. This contrasts with a monopsony which relates to a single entity's control of a market to purchase a good or service, and with oligopoly which consists of a few sellers dominating a market).
thumb|300px|Short-run equilibrium of the firm under monopolistic competition. The firm maximizes its profits and produces a quantity where the firm's marginal revenue (MR) is equal to its marginal cost (MC).
thumb|right|Mathematical induction can be informally illustrated by reference to the sequential effect of falling [[Domino effect|dominoes.Mathematical Induction at www.
Matrix or MATRIX may refer to:
This is a list of top international male singles tennis players, both past and present.
Metaphilosophy (sometimes called philosophy of philosophy) is &quot;the investigation of the nature of philosophy&quot;. Its subject matter includes the aims of philosophy, the boundaries of philosophy, and its methods.
Microphotonics is a branch of technology that deals with directing light on a microscopic scale.  It is used in optical networking.
, as Windows 1.0
Mojo , in the African-American folk belief called hoodoo, is an amulet consisting of a flannel bag containing one or more magical items. It is a &quot;prayer in a bag&quot;, or a spell that can be carried with or on the host's body.
Metaphysics is a branch of philosophy exploring the fundamental nature of reality.Geisler, Norman L.
Human spaceflight (also referred to as manned spaceflight) is space travel with a crew or passengers aboard the spacecraft. Spacecraft carrying people may be operated directly, by human crew, or it may be either remotely operated from ground stations on Earth or be autonomous, able to carry out a specific mission with no human involvement.
Mendelevium is a synthetic element with chemical symbol Md (formerly Mv) and atomic number 101. A metallic radioactive transuranic element in the actinide series, it is the first element that currently cannot be produced in macroscopic quantities through neutron bombardment of lighter elements.
In propositional logic, modus ponendo ponens (Latin for &quot;the way that affirms by affirming&quot;; generally abbreviated to MP or modus ponens) or implication elimination is a rule of inference.Enderton 2001:110 It can be summarized as &quot;P implies Q and P is asserted to be true, so therefore Q must be true.
In propositional logic, modus tollensUniversity of North Carolina, Philosophy Department, Logic Glossary. Accessdate on 31 October 2007.
A mathematician is someone who uses an extensive knowledge of mathematics in his or her work, typically to solve mathematical problems.
Microfluidics deals with the behaviour, precise control and manipulation of fluids that are geometrically constrained to a small, typically sub-millimeter, scale. It is a multidisciplinary field at the intersection of engineering, physics, chemistry, biochemistry, nanotechnology, and biotechnology, with practical applications in the design of systems in which low volumes of fluids are processed to achieve multiplexing, automation, and high-throughput screening.
Magnesium is a chemical element with symbol Mg and atomic number 12. It is a shiny gray solid which bears a close physical resemblance to the other five elements in the second column (group 2, or alkaline earth metals) of the periodic table: all group 2 elements have the same electron configuration in the outer electron shell and a similar crystal structure.
A markup language is a system for annotating a document in a way that is syntactically distinguishable from the text. The idea and terminology evolved from the &quot;marking up&quot; of paper manuscripts, i.
Meaning may refer to:
Meta-ethics is the branch of ethics that seeks to understand the nature of ethical properties, statements, attitudes, and judgments. Meta-ethics is one of the four branches of ethics generally recognized by philosophers, the others being descriptive ethics, normative ethics and applied ethics.
Montesquieu (1689–1755) was a French lawyer, man of letters, and political philosopher.
(The LDS Church claimed a membership of over 14 million in 2010);  (reporting 13 million members of the LDS Church in 2008, and noting 250,000 members of the non-Mormon Community of Christ);  (estimating the number of so-called Fundamentalist Mormons at around 20,000).
A subject is a being who has a unique consciousness and/or unique personal experiences, or an entity that has a relationship with another entity that exists outside of itself (called an &quot;object&quot;). A subject is an observer and an object is a thing observed.
Media bias is the bias or perceived bias of journalists and news producers within the mass media in the selection of events and stories that are reported and how they are covered.  The term &quot;media bias&quot; implies a pervasive or widespread bias contravening the standards of journalism, rather than the perspective of an individual journalist or article.
Morse code is a method of transmitting text information as a series of on-off tones, lights, or clicks that can be directly understood by a skilled listener or observer without special equipment. It is named for Samuel F.
Mapping is the creation of maps, a graphic symbolic representation of the significant features of a part of the surface of the Earth.
Emergency contraception (EC), or emergency postcoital contraception, are birth control measures that may be used after sexual intercourse to prevent pregnancy.
Meat is animal flesh that is eaten as food. Humans have hunted and killed animals for meat since prehistoric times.
 
Mole, The Mole or variants may refer to:
Mentha (also known as mint, from Greek míntha, Linear B mi-ta)Palaeolexicon, Word study tool of ancient languages is a genus of plants in the family Lamiaceae (mint family). It is estimated that 13 to 18 species exist, and the exact distinction between species is still unclear.
}}
Medicine is the science and practice of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease. Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness.
The Macedonian phalanx is an infantry formation developed by Philip II and used by his son Alexander the Great to conquer the Achaemenid Empire and other armies.  Phalanxes remained dominant on battlefields throughout the Hellenistic period, although wars had developed into more protracted operations generally involving sieges and naval combat as much as pitched battles, until they were finally displaced by the Roman legions.
Malagasy}}
thumb|Blue Eyes [[Fuchsia flower and buds, from order Myrtales and family Onagraceae]]
The Miranda warning, which also can be referred to as the Miranda rights, is a right to silence warning given by police in the United States to criminal suspects in police custody (or in a custodial interrogation) before they are interrogated to preserve the admissibility of their statements against them in criminal proceedings.
Moot may refer to:
The Mississippian (also known as Lower Carboniferous or Early Carboniferous) is a subperiod in the geologic timescale or a subsystem of the geologic record. It is the earliest/lowermost of two subperiods of the Carboniferous period lasting from roughly 358.
Meiosis  is a specialized type of cell division that reduces the chromosome number by half, creating four haploid cells, each genetically distinct from the parent cell that gave rise to them. This process occurs in all sexually reproducing single-celled and multicellular eukaryotes, including animals, plants, and fungi.
Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that results in increasing weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. The disorders differ in which muscles are primarily affected, the degree of weakness, how fast they worsen, and when symptoms begin.
Mongolchuud
are comics created in Japan or by creators in the Japanese language, conforming to a style developed in Japan in the late 19th century.,  They have a long and complex pre-history in earlier Japanese art.
Merlot is a dark blue-colored wine grape variety, that is used as both a blending grape and for varietal wines. The name Merlot is thought to be a diminutive of merle, the French name for the blackbird, probably a reference to the color of the grape.
MM or variants may refer to:
Marcel Achard (5 July 1899 – 4 September 1974) was a French playwright and screenwriter whose popular sentimental comediesGarzanti p. 3 maintained his position as a highly recognizable name in his country's theatrical and literary circles for five decades.
(Canada hardback)
Mercury usually refers to:
right|thumb|200px|The experimenter (E) orders the teacher (T), the subject of the experiment, to give what the latter believes are painful electric shocks to a learner (L), who is actually an actor and [The subject is led to believe that for each wrong answer, the learner was receiving actual electric shocks, though in reality there were no such punishments. Being separated from the subject, the confederate set up a tape recorder integrated with the electro-shock generator, which played pre-recorded sounds for each shock level.
The Miocene (}}}}) is the first geological epoch of the Neogene Period and extends from about  (Ma). The Miocene was named by Sir Charles Lyell.
A monarch is a sovereign head of state in a monarchy.Webster's II New College Dictionary.
A monarchy is a form of government in which a group, generally a family representing a dynasty, embodies the country's national identity and its head, the monarch, exercises the role of sovereignty. The actual power of the monarch may vary from purely symbolic (crowned republic), to partial and restricted (constitutional monarchy), to completely autocratic (absolute monarchy).
thumb|right|Mouthpieces for [[brass instruments]]
Morphology, from the Greek and meaning &quot;study of shape&quot;, may mean:
Measurement is the assignment of a number to a characteristic of an object or event, which can be compared with other objects or events. The scope and application of a measurement is dependent on the context and discipline.
Malden Island, sometimes called Independence Island in the nineteenth century, is a low, arid, uninhabited atoll in the central Pacific Ocean, about  in area. It is one of the Line Islands belonging to the Republic of Kiribati.
In the spelling of Hebrew and some other Semitic languages, matres lectionis (; from Latin &quot;mothers of reading&quot;, singular form: mater lectionis, ), refers to the use of certain consonants to indicate a vowel. The letters that do this in Hebrew are &lt;&gt; aleph, &lt;&gt; he, &lt;&gt; waw (or vav) and &lt;&gt; yod (or yud).
My Fair Lady is a musical based on George Bernard Shaw's Pygmalion, with book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.  The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phoneticist, so that she may pass as a lady.
thumb|right|[[1973 in film|1973's Enter the Dragon, starring a charismatic Bruce Lee and distributed by Warner Bros., opened mainstream Western audiences to the previously obscure martial-arts film genre.
}}
Meroitic may refer to:
The word or term &quot;Mormon&quot; most commonly denotes an adherent, practitioner, follower, or constituent of Mormonism in restorationist Christianity. &quot;Mormon&quot; also commonly refers, specifically, to a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), which is often colloquially, but imprecisely, referred to as the &quot;Mormon Church&quot;.
The Mariana Trench or Marianas Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, an average of  to the east of the Mariana Islands, in the Western Pacific East of Philippines.
A municipality is usually a single urban administrative division having corporate status and powers of self-government or jurisdiction as granted by national and state laws to which it is subordinate. It is to be distinguished from the county, which may encompass rural territory or numerous small communities such as towns, villages and hamlets.
A metal (from Greek μέταλλον métallon, &quot;mine, quarry, metal&quot;μέταλλον Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus Digital Librarymetal, on Oxford Dictionaries) is a material (an element, compound, or alloy) that is typically hard, opaque, shiny, and has good electrical and thermal conductivity. Metals are generally malleable—that is, they can be hammered or pressed permanently out of shape without breaking or cracking—as well as fusible (able to be fused or melted) and ductile (able to be drawn out into a thin wire).
Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) is an Internet standard that extends the format of email to support:
In physics, mass is a property of a physical body. It is the measure of an object's resistance to acceleration (a change in its state of motion) when a net force is applied.
Mark may refer to:
Manganese is a chemical element with symbol Mn and atomic number 25. It is not found as a free element in nature; it is often found in minerals in combination with iron.
Molybdenum is a chemical element with symbol Mo and atomic number 42. The name is from Neo-Latin molybdaenum, from Ancient Greek  , meaning lead, since its ores were confused with lead ores.
A mineral is a naturally occurring chemical compound, usually of crystalline form and abiogenic in origin. A  mineral has one specific chemical composition, whereas a rock can be an aggregate of different minerals or mineraloids.
Marble is a metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized carbonate minerals, most commonly calcite or dolomite. Marble may be foliated.
}} }}
thumb|right|[[Ruins of St. Paul's|St.
__NOTOC__
thumb|right|200px|Street scene in Macau
Politics of Macau takes place in a framework of a political system dominated by the People's Republic of China, an own legislature, the Chief Executive as the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
.The Basics | Fodor's Travel= calendar year
With Macau's population (about 500,000) and its small market, only a few media options are available for the local people. Because radio signals, newspapers and magazines from Hong Kong are available in Macau, the local media are always a minority group in terms of sales and number of viewers.
Transport in Macau includes road, sea and air transport. Road transport is the primary mode of transport within Macau as there are no railways.
Macedonia}}
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Republic of Macedonia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populous, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics in the Republic of Macedonia occur within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$13 billion (nominal, 2015 est.)https://www.
Telecommunications in the Republic of Macedonia include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
The following is a summary of the transport system of the Republic of Macedonia.
The foreign relations of the Republic of Macedonia since its independence in 1991 have been characterized by the country's efforts to gain membership in international organizations such as NATO and the European Union and to gain international recognition under its constitutional name, overshadowed by a long-standing, dead-locked dispute with neighboring Greece. Greek objections to the country's name have led to it being admitted to the United Nations and several other international fora only under the provisional designation Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
}} (Chichewa)
Madagascar has diplomatic relations with many countries, both individual bilateral relations and by virtue of its membership of African and other regional blocs. International aid has been received from the IMF and the World Bank, and a national environmental plan supported by the World Bank and USAID began in 1990.
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Malawi, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Malawi takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Malawi is both head of state and head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
+6.2% (2015 est.
Communications in Malawi includes the country's postal, telephone, television, radio and internet services.
thumb|An unpaved country road in MalawiTransportation in Malawi is poorly developed. The country of almost 14 million has 39 airports, 6 with paved runways and 33 with unpaved runways.
Malawi's former President Bakili Muluzi continued the pro-Western foreign policy established by former President Hastings Banda. It maintains excellent diplomatic relations with principal Western countries.
The demographics of Malaysia are represented by the multiple ethnic groups that exist in this country. Malaysia's population, according to the 2010 census, is 28,334,000 including non-citizens, which makes it the 41st most populated country in the world.
Politics of Malaysia takes place in the framework of a federal representative democratic constitutional monarchy, in which the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is head of state and the Prime Minister of Malaysia is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the federal government and the 13 state governments.
$0.332 trillion (Nominal 2017 est.
The primary regulator of telecommunications in the Malaysia is the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC). It issues licenses under the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998, the Postal Services Act 1991 and the Digital Signature Act 1997.
thumb|300px|The 966 km [[North–South Expressway (Malaysia)|North–South Expressway, which runs through seven states in Peninsular Malaysia, is the longest expressway in Malaysia.]]
Malaysia is an active member of various international organisations, including the Commonwealth of Nations, the United Nations, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and the Non-Aligned Movement. It has also in recent times been an active proponent of regional co-operation.
}}
The Maldives is a nation consisting of 26 natural atolls, comprising 1192 islands. Since  ancient times, the Maldives were ruled by kings (Radhun) and occasionally queens (Ranin).
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Maldives, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Maldives takes place in the framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President is the Head of Government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telephones - Fixedline's in use:
thumb|330px|right|Dhonis are major way of transportation.
The history of the territory of modern Mali may be divided into:
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Mali, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Until the military coup of March 22, 2012http://www.telegraph.
}}
thumb|300px|Children watch television in a village in rural Mali.
thumb|300px|A highway heading south from [[Bamako, Mali.]]
Following independence in 1960, Mali initially followed a socialist path and was aligned ideologically with the communist bloc. Mali's foreign policy orientation became increasingly pragmatic and pro-Western over time.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Malta, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Malta takes place within a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Malta is the constitutional head of state. Executive Authority is vested in the President of Malta with the general direction and control of the Government of Malta remaining with the Prime Minister of Malta who is the head of government and the cabinet.
$11.22 billion (PPP, 2013 est.
This article is an overview of telecommunications in Malta.
The transport system in Malta is small but extensive, and the islands' domestic system of public transport is reliant on buses and taxis, although there were both a railway and a tramway in the past.
For several years after independence in 1964, under the Nationalist Party government, Malta followed a policy of close co-operation with the United Kingdom and other NATO countries. This relationship changed with the election of the Labour Party government in June 1971, led by Dom Mintoff.
(Marshallese)
The Marshalls consist of 29 atolls and five isolated islands, which form two parallel groups—the &quot;Ratak&quot; (sunrise) chain and the &quot;Ralik&quot; (sunset) chain.   The Marshalls share maritime boundaries with Micronesia and  Kiribati.
}}
This article is about communications systems in the Marshall Islands.
Railways:
The Republic of the Marshall Islands has established bilateral diplomatic relations with over 75 other nations.web|url=http://www.
Mass deacidification is a term used in Library and Information Science for one possible measure against the degradation of paper in old books (the so-called &quot;slow fires&quot;). The goal of the process is to increase the pH of acidic paper on a large scale.
The mile is an English unit of length of linear measure equal to 5,280 feet, or 1,760 yards, and standardised as exactly 1,609.344 metres by international agreement in 1959.
right|thumb|300px|Mr Praline ([[John Cleese) (right) attempts to return his dead Norwegian Blue parrot to the shopkeeper (Michael Palin)]]
The Cheese Shop is a well-known sketch from Monty Python's Flying Circus.
&quot;Bruces' Philosophers Song (Bruces' Song)&quot; is a popular Monty Python song written and composed by Eric IdleMonty Python Sings CD booklet. 1989 Virgin Records that was a feature of the group's stage appearances and its recordings.
&quot;The Funniest Joke in the World&quot; is the title most frequently used for written references to a Monty Python's Flying Circus comedy sketch, which is also known by two other phrases that appear within it, &quot;Joke Warfare&quot; and &quot;Killer Joke&quot;, the latter being the most commonly spoken title used to refer to it. The premise of the sketch is that the joke is so funny that anyone who reads or hears it promptly dies from laughter.
&quot;The Spanish Inquisition&quot; is a series of sketches in Monty Python's Flying Circus, Series 2 Episode 2, first broadcast 22 September 1970, parodying the real-life Spanish Inquisition.  This episode is itself entitled &quot;The Spanish Inquisition&quot;.
thumb|right|[[Christ Pantocrator seated in a capital &quot;U&quot; in an illuminated manuscript from the Badische Landesbibliothek, Germany.]]
Misogyny () is the hatred of, contempt for, or prejudice against women or girls. Misogyny can be manifested in numerous ways, including social exclusion, sex discrimination, hostility, androcentrism, patriarchy, male privilege, belittling of women, violence against women, and sexual objectification.
==Population==
Martinique is an overseas Territorial collectivity of France, with the same political status as regions and departments in mainland France. The administrative centre of Martinique is located in Fort-de-France.
The economy of Martinique is based on the trade of things that are worthless to exchange them for more valuable objects. Agriculture accounts for about 6% of GDP and the small industrial sector for 11%.
Communications in Martinique.
Martinique, like other small Caribbean islands, has no railways. As of 2000, Martinique had 2,105 km of paved highways.
The original inhabitants of Mauritania were the Bafour, presumably a Mande ethnic group, connected to the contemporary Arabized minor social group of Imraguen (&quot;fishermen&quot;) on the Atlantic coast.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Mauritania, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The first fully democratic Presidential election since 1960 occurred on 11 March 2007. The election was the final transfer from military to civilian rule following the military coup in 2005.
$7.824 billion (PPP) (2012 est.
Citizens of Mauritania have various transportation methods. Railways and highways connect major cities in the country.
Telephones - main lines in use:
Gateway to India, Hollywood of India
M (named em )&quot;M&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;em,&quot; op. cit.
In mathematics, mean has several different definitions depending on the context.
}}
MU, Mu or µ may refer to:
thumb|Five-layer mu-metal box. Each layer is about 5 mm thick.
Monastir may refer to:
Molecular biology  concerns the molecular basis of biological activity between biomolecules in the various systems of a cell, including the interactions between DNA, RNA, and proteins and their biosynthesis, as well as the regulation of these interactions. Writing in Nature in 1961, William Astbury described molecular biology as:
The known history of Mauritius begins with its discovery by Arabs, followed by Europeans and its appearance on maps in the early 16th century. Mauritius was successively colonized by the Dutch, the French and the British, and became independent in 1968.
}}
Politics of Mauritius takes place in a framework of a parliamentary democracy. The separation of powers is among the three branches of the Government of Mauritius, namely the legislative, the executive and the Judiciary, is embedded in the Constitution of Mauritius.
Telecommunications had an early beginning in Mauritius, with the first telephone line installed in 1883, seven years after the invention of the telephone. Over the years, the network and telephony  improved.
Transportation in Mauritius is characterized by the network of roadways, ports, and airports. The island was originally only accessible by boat until 1922, when the first flight landed in Mauritius.
(2012 est.)
Mauritius has strong and friendly relations with the West, as well as with South Asian countries and the countries of southern and eastern Africa. It is a member of the World Trade Organization, the Commonwealth of Nations, La Francophonie, the African Union, the Southern Africa Development Community, the Indian Ocean Commission, COMESA, and the recently formed Indian Ocean Rim Association.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Mayotte, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. Mayotte's population density went from 179 persons per square kilometer in 1985 to 251 per square kilometer in 1991.
The politics of Mayotte takes place in a framework of a French overseas region and department, until 2011 an overseas collectivity. Local politics takes place in a parliamentary representative democratic setting whereby the President of the General Council is the head of government, of a multi-party system.
The telecommunications in Mayotte consist of an estimated 10,000 main telephone lines in use as of 2002, and an estimated 48,100 cellular phones in use as of 2004. The telephone system is small, and is administered by French Department of Posts and Telecommunications.
The history of Mexico, a country in the southern portion of North America, covers a period of more than three millennia. First populated more than 13,000 years ago,&quot;Oldest American skull found&quot;, CNN, December 3, 2002 the territory had complex indigenous civilizations before being conquered and colonized by the Spanish in the 16th century.
The Politics of Mexico take place in a framework of a federal presidential representative democratic republic whose government is based on a congressional system, whereby the President of Mexico is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. The federal government represents the United Mexican States and is divided into three branches: executive, legislative and judicial, as established by the Political Constitution of the United Mexican States, published in 1917.
Communications in Mexico are regulated by the Secretariat of Communication and Transportation (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes or SCT), a federal executive cabinet ministry and by the Federal Telecommunications Institute (Instituto Federal de Telecomunicaciones or IFT).
Transportation and Communications in Mexico may refer to:
The foreign relations of Mexico are directed by the President of the United Mexican States and managed through the Secretariat of Foreign Affairs. The principles of the foreign policy are constitutionally recognized in the Article 89, Section 10, which include: respect for international law and legal equality of states, their sovereignty and independence, non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other countries, peaceful resolution of conflicts, and promotion of collective security through active participation in international organizations.
Micronesia (from , mikrós, &quot;small&quot; + , nêsos, &quot;island&quot;) is a subregion of Oceania, comprising thousands of small islands in the western Pacific Ocean. It has a shared cultural history with two other island regions, Polynesia to the east and Melanesia to the south.
The history of Moldova can be traced to the 1350s, when the Principality of Moldavia, the medieval precursor of modern Moldova and Romania, was founded. The principality was a vassal of the Ottoman Empire from 1538 until the 19th century.
thumb|right|250px|Political map of Moldova
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Moldova, including distribution, ethnicity, languages, religious affiliation and other statistical data.
}}
$6.750 billion (2016) (nominal)
Telecommunications in Moldova are maintained at a relatively high performance level. Because Moldova is a small country, telecommunications companies managed to achieve good coverage in both wired and wireless communications infrastructure.
In 1995, the main means of transportation in Moldova were railroads () and a highway system ( overall, including  of paved surfaces). The major railroad junctions are Chișinău, Bender, Ungheni, Ocnița (Oknitsa, in Russian), Bălți, and Basarabeasca (Bessarabka, in Russian).
After achieving independence from the Soviet Union, the Republic of Moldova established relations with other European countries. A course for European Union integration and neutrality define the country's foreign policy guidelines.
*Monégasque: Principatu de Múnegu
}}
}} / sq. km.
The politics of Monaco take place within the framework of a constitutional monarchy, with the Prince of Monaco as head of state, with some powers devolved to several advisory and legislative bodies.
This is an overview of the economy of Monaco. Monaco, situated on the French coast of the Mediterranean Sea, is a popular resort, attracting tourists to its casino and pleasant climate.
Monaco Telecom is the main telecommunications provider in the Principality of Monaco.
thumb|Line 2 at a bus stop
thumb|right|A member of the armed forces of Monaco on guard duty at the Prince's Palace.
(2010 census); 3,000,000 (2015-01-22 est.);Mongolian population officially reaches three million 3,057,800 as of 31 December 2015 (2015 mid-term census)| density            = 1.
Politics of Mongolia takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government.
Telecommunications in Mongolia face unique challenges. As the least densely populated country in the world, with a significant portion of the population living a nomadic lifestyle, it has been difficult for many traditional information and communication technology (ICT) companies to make headway into Mongolian society.
The transportation system in Mongolia consists of a network of railways, roads, waterways, and airports.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Montserrat, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Montserrat takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Premier is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Montserrat is an internally self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom.
thumb|right|250px|[[Plymouth, Montserrat|Plymouth, the capital, was abandoned in 1997 following the eruption]]
Montserrat possesses a number of telecommunications systems, including mobile and main line telephone, radio and television.  The country code for Montserrat is &quot;MS&quot;.
Railways:
The history of Morocco spans several millennia, succeeding the prehistoric cultures of Jebel Irhoud and Taforalt. It dates from the establishment of Mauretania and other ancient Berber kingdoms, to the formation of the Almoravid dynasty, Idrisid dynasty and other Islamic polities, through to the colonial and independence periods.
thumb|310px|True-color image of Morocco from Terra spacecraft
thumb|330px|Foreign residents in Morocco by country of birth, in 1994
Politics of Morocco take place in a framework of a parliamentary constitutional monarchy, whereby the Prime Minister of Morocco is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
US$ 103.08 billion (nominal, 2015 est.
The following is an outline of communications technology in Morocco.
There are around  of roads (national, regional and provincial) in Morocco. In addition to  of highways (August 2016).
Morocco is a member of the United Nations and belongs to the African Union, Arab League, Arab Maghreb Union (UMA), Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Non-Aligned Movement and the Community of Sahel-Saharan States (CEN_SAD). Morocco's relationships vary greatly between African, Arab, and Western states.
Mozambique was a Portuguese colony, overseas province and later a member state of Portugal. It gained independence from Portugal in 1975.
right|thumb|Map of Mozambique's population centres
The demographics of Mozambique describes the condition and overview of Mozambique's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations.
Politics of Mozambique takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Mozambique is head of state and head of government of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Mozambique include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
right|150px
fleet admiral}}
While alliances dating back to the Mozambican War of Independence remain relevant, Mozambique's foreign policy has become increasingly pragmatic. The twin pillars of the policy are maintenance of good relations with its neighbors and maintenance and expansion of ties to development partners.
A meme ( ) is an idea, behavior, or style that spreads from person to person within a culture.Meme.
Monroe may refer to:
Maugham is a surname most commonly associated with the English literary family. The name is a variant of Malham, Malgham, and Malghum.
Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon of some nerve cells, forming an electrically insulating layer. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system.
Mental process or mental function are all the things that individuals can do with their minds. These include perception, memory, thinking (such as ideation, imagination, belief, reasoning, etc.
The Mesozoic Era ( or }}}}) is an interval of geological time from about . It is also called the Age of Reptiles, a phrase introduced by the 19th century paleontologist Gideon Mantell who viewed it as dominated by diapsids such as Iguanodon, Megalosaurus, Plesiosaurus and Pterodactylus.
–1976, 1993-present
Monism is the view that attributes oneness or singleness (Greek: μόνος) to a concept (e.g.
A master shot is a film recording of an entire dramatized scene, from start to finish, from an angle that keeps all the players in view.  It is often a long shot and can sometimes perform a double function as an establishing shot.
In film, a medium shot, mid shot (MS), or waist shot is a camera angle shot from a medium distance.
M4, m4, M04, or M-4 may refer to:
The film industry is built upon a large number of technologies and techniques, drawing upon photography, stagecraft, music, and many other disciplines. Following is an index of specific terminology applicable thereto.
A mountain range or hill range is a series of mountains or hills ranged in a line and connected by high ground. A mountain system or mountain belt is a group of mountain ranges with similarity in form, structure and alignment that have arisen from the same cause, usually an orogeny.
March is the third month of the year in both the Julian and Gregorian calendars. It is the second month to have a length of 31 days.
May is the fifth month of the year in the Julian  and Gregorian Calendars and the third month to have the length of 31 days.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
This day marks the approximate midpoint of spring in the Northern Hemisphere and of autumn in the Southern Hemisphere (starting the season at the March equinox).
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Marijuana  or marihuana refers to:
Mayo may refer to:
}}
Maquis may refer to:
thumb|right|Matteo Carcassi
The minute is a unit of time or of angle. As a unit of time, the minute is equal to  (the first sexagesimal fraction.
thumb | right | [[Escherichia coli is a gram-negative prokaryotic model organism]]
Materialism is a form of philosophical monism which holds that matter is the fundamental substance in nature, and that all things, including mental aspects and consciousness, are results of material interactions.
Microelectronics is a subfield of electronics. As the name suggests, microelectronics relates to the study and manufacture (or microfabrication) of very small electronic designs and components.
The mind is a set of cognitive faculties including consciousness, perception, thinking, judgement, and memory. It is usually defined as the faculty of an entity's thoughts and consciousness.
(aged 60–61)
Multivariate statistics is a subdivision of statistics encompassing the simultaneous observation and analysis of more than one outcome variable. The application of multivariate statistics is multivariate analysis.
==Events==
Money laundering is the process of transforming the profits of crime and corruption into ostensibly &quot;legitimate&quot; assets. In a number of legal and regulatory systems, however, the term money laundering has become conflated with other forms of financial and business crime, and is sometimes used                                                                                                                                                                           more generally to include misuse of the financial system (involving things such as securities, digital currencies, credit cards, and traditional currency), including terrorism financing and evasion of international sanctions.
Mercedes may refer to:
José María Chacón y Calvo, &quot;Retratos de Cervantes,&quot; Anales de la Academia Nacional de Artes y Letras 27, 1947–48, 5–17; Enrique Lafuente Ferrari, La novela ejemplar de los retratos de Cervantes, Madrid, 1948.
or 6 April 1135
thumb|right|The manipulations of this [[Rubik's Cube form the Rubik's Cube group.]]
==Events==
)|}}
The Mediterranean is a major body of water south of Europe, west of Asia and north of Africa.
==Events==
Mahjong ( , ) is a tile-based game that originated in China during the Qing dynasty. It is commonly played by four players (with some three-player variations found in South Korea and Japan).
==Events==
or  (age –)
Martial arts are codified systems and traditions of combat practices, which are practiced for a number of reasons: as self-defense, military and law enforcement applications, mental and spiritual development; as well as entertainment and the preservation of a nation's intangible cultural heritage.
Murat Ses (Ses means sound or voice in Turkish) (born 1946, Bayrakli, Izmir, Turkey) is a Turkish keyboard player and composer with strong Eurasian electronic elements. He is creator of the Anadolu Pop style, a synthesis of Anatolian Music and Western elements that has been influencing Turkish music scene for decades.
In mathematics, a finitary relation has a finite number of &quot;places&quot;. In set theory and logic, a relation is a property that assigns truth values to k-tuples of individuals.
Mokèlé-mbèmbé (meaning &quot;one who stops the flow of rivers&quot; in the Lingala language) is a legendary water-dwelling creature of Congo River basin folklore, sometimes described as a living creature, sometimes as a spirit, and loosely analogous to the Loch Ness Monster in Western culture. It is claimed to be a sauropod by some cryptozoologists.
In the philosophy of mathematics, intuitionism, or neointuitionism (opposed to preintuitionism), is an approach where mathematics is considered to be purely the result of the constructive mental activity of humans rather than the discovery of fundamental principles claimed to exist in an objective reality. That is, logic and mathematics are not considered analytic activities wherein deep properties of objective reality are revealed and applied but are instead considered the application of internally consistent methods used to realize more complex mental constructs, regardless of their possible independent existence in an objective reality.
==Events==
==Events==
The Mishnah or Mishna (; , &quot;study by repetition&quot;, from the verb shanah , or &quot;to study and review&quot;, also &quot;secondary&quot;)The same meaning is suggested by the term Deuterosis (&quot;doubling&quot; or &quot;repetition&quot; in Ancient Greek) used in Roman law and Patristic literature. However it is not always clear from the context whether the reference is to the Mishnah or to the Targum, which could be regarded as a &quot;doubling&quot; of the Torah reading.
A marathon is a distance race of .
Monotheism has been defined as the belief in the existence of only one god that created the world, is all-powerful and intervenes in the world.Cross, F.
==Events==
}}}}
Mechanical engineering is the discipline that applies engineering, physics, and materials science principles to design, analyze, manufacture, and maintain mechanical systems.  It is one of the oldest and broadest of the engineering disciplines.
Minister may refer to:
==Events==
A MUD (; originally Multi-User Dungeon, with later variants Multi-User Dimension and Multi-User Domain), is a multiplayer real-time virtual world, usually text-based.  MUDs combine elements of role-playing games, hack and slash, player versus player, interactive fiction, and online chat.
In multiplayer online games, a MUSH (a backronymed pun on MUD most often expanded as Multi-User Shared Hallucination, though Multi-User Shared Hack, Habitat, and Holodeck are also observed) is a text-based online social medium to which multiple users are connected at the same time. MUSHes are often used for online social intercourse and role-playing games, although the first forms of MUSH do not appear to be coded specifically to implement gaming activity.
Microevolution is the change in allele frequencies that occurs over time within a population.Microevolution: What is microevolution?
Modernism is a philosophical movement that, along with cultural trends and changes, arose from wide-scale and far-reaching transformations in Western society during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Among the factors that shaped modernism were the development of modern industrial societies and the rapid growth of cities, followed then by reactions of horror to World War I.
Masochism is the practice of seeking pain because it is pleasurable, named for Leopold von Sacher-Masoch from Lviv. It may also refer to:
Multiple inheritance is a feature of some object-oriented computer programming languages in which an object or class can inherit characteristics and features from more than one parent object or parent class. It is distinct from single inheritance, where an object or class may only inherit from one particular object or class.
Media studies is a discipline and field of study that deals with the content, history, and effects of various media; in particular, the mass media. Media studies may draw on traditions from both the social sciences and the humanities, but mostly from its core disciplines of mass communication, communication, communication sciences, and communication studies.
A microprocessor is a computer processor which incorporates the functions of a computer's central processing unit (CPU) on a single integrated circuit (IC), or at most a few integrated circuits.Krishna Kant Microprocessors And Microcontrollers: Architecture Programming And System Design, PHI Learning Pvt.
A molecule is an electrically neutral group of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds. Molecules are distinguished from ions by their lack of electrical charge.
In the theory of Western music, mode (from Latin modus, &quot;measure, standard, manner, way, size, limit of quantity, method&quot;) (; OED) generally refers to a type of scale, coupled with a set of characteristic melodic behaviours. This use, still the most common in recent years, reflects a tradition dating to the Middle Ages, itself inspired by the theory of ancient Greek music.
Mechanics (Greek ) is an area of science concerned with the behaviour of physical bodies when subjected to forces or displacements, and the subsequent effects of the bodies on their environment.
The Mandelbrot set is the set of complex numbers c for which the function f_c(z)=z^2+c does not diverge when iterated from z=0, i.e.
450px|thumb|right|The [[periodic table of the chemical elements. The columns represent the groups.
Microscopy is the technical field of using microscopes to view objects and areas of objects that cannot be seen with the naked eye (objects that are not within the resolution range of the normal eye). There are three well-known branches of microscopy: optical, electron, and scanning probe microscopy.
A microscope (from the , mikrós, &quot;small&quot; and , skopeîn, &quot;to look&quot; or &quot;see&quot;) is an instrument used to see objects that are too small to be seen by the naked eye. Microscopy is the science of investigating small objects and structures using such an instrument.
}}
Monitor or monitor may refer to:
* Gershom
Men in Black (franchise)|other uses|Men in Black (disambiguation)}}
==Events==
A monomer ( ) ([&quot;one&quot; + -mer], &quot;part&quot;) is a [[molecule that, as a unit,  binds chemically or supramolecularly to other molecules to form a supramolecular polymer.Introduction to Polymers 1987 R.
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in all eukaryotic organisms. Some cells in some multicellular organisms may however lack them (for example, mature mammalian red blood cells).
Minimax (sometimes MinMax or MMProvincial Healthcare Index 2013 (Bacchus Barua, Fraser Institute, January 2013 -see page 25-)) is a decision rule used in decision theory, game theory, statistics and philosophy for minimizing the possible loss for a worst case (maximum loss) scenario.  When dealing with gains, it is referred to as &quot;maximin&quot; - to maximize the minimum gain.
2008: 24. (retrieved 16 July 2009)
In modern language, a missile  is a self-propelled precision-guided munition system, as opposed to an unguided self-propelled munition, referred to as a rocket (although these too can also be guided). Missiles have four system components: targeting or missile guidance, flight system, engine, and warhead.
Mendelian inheritance, .}} is a type of biological inheritance that follows the laws originally proposed by Gregor Mendel in 1865 and 1866 and re-discovered in 1900.
Machinima ( or ) is the use of real-time computer graphics engines to create a cinematic production. Most often video games are used to generate the computer animation.
Mutagenesis  is a process by which the genetic information of an organism is changed, resulting in a mutation.  It may occur spontaneously in nature, or as a result of exposure to mutagens.
}}
In astronomy, the main sequence is a continuous and distinctive band of stars that appears on plots of stellar color versus brightness. These color-magnitude plots are known as Hertzsprung–Russell diagrams after their co-developers, Ejnar Hertzsprung and Henry Norris Russell.
In computer science, a memory leak is a type of resource leak that occurs when a computer program incorrectly manages memory allocations in such a way that memory which is no longer needed is not released.  In object-oriented programming, a memory leak may happen when an object is stored in memory but cannot be accessed by the running code.
In chemistry, a molecular orbital (MO) is a mathematical function describing the wave-like behavior of an electron in a molecule. This function can be used to calculate chemical and physical properties such as the probability of finding an electron in any specific region.
Systems Concepts (now the SC Group) is a company co-founded by Stewart Nelson and Mike Levitt focused on making hardware products related to the DEC PDP-10 series of computers.  One of its major products was the SA-10, an interface which allowed PDP-10s to be connected to disk and tape drives designed for use with the channel interfaces of IBM mainframes.
}}
thumb|300px|A [[diamond cuboctahedron showing seven crystallographic planes, imaged with scanning electron microscopy]]
The Mitsubishi A6M &quot;Zero&quot; is a long-range fighter aircraft, manufactured by Mitsubishi Aircraft Company, a part of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and operated by the Imperial Japanese Navy from 1940 to 1945. The A6M was designated as the , or the Mitsubishi A6M Rei-sen.
==Events==
thumb|[[Trappist monk praying in his cell.]]
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
In the Roman calendar, March 15 was known as the Ides of March.
Mathematical logic is a subfield of mathematics exploring the applications of formal logic to mathematics.  It bears close connections to metamathematics, the foundations of mathematics, and theoretical computer science.
Molecular nanotechnology (MNT) is a technology based on the ability to build structures to complex, atomic specifications by means of mechanosynthesis. This is distinct from nanoscale materials.
Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS, also written as micro-electro-mechanical,  MicroElectroMechanical or microelectronic and microelectromechanical systems and the related micromechatronics) is the technology of microscopic devices, particularly those with moving parts. It merges at the nano-scale into nanoelectromechanical systems (NEMS) and nanotechnology.
The mass media is a diversified collection of media technologies that reach a large audience via mass communication. The technologies through which this communication takes place include a variety of outlets.
The Mahābhārata (, , ) is one of the two major Sanskrit epics of ancient India, the other being the Rāmāyaṇa.
Mein Kampf (, My Struggle) is a 1925 autobiographical book by Nazi Party leader Adolf Hitler.  The work describes the process by which Hitler became antisemitic and outlines his political ideology and future plans for Germany.
Morpheus may refer to:
==Events==
Multiple Virtual Storage, more commonly called MVS, was the most commonly used operating system on the System/370 and System/390 IBM mainframe computers. It was developed by IBM, but is unrelated to IBM's other mainframe operating systems, e.
Monad}}
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
thumb|260 px|right|For any function that is continuous on [a,b] and differentiable on (a,b) there exists some c in the interval (a,b) such that the secant joining the endpoints of the interval [a,b] is parallel to the tangent at c .
Mallow or mallows may refer to:
Realtime Associates}}
The Marx Brothers were an American family comedy act that was successful in vaudeville, on Broadway, and in motion pictures from 1905 to 1949. Five of the Marx Brothers' thirteen feature films were selected by the American Film Institute (AFI) as among the top 100 comedy films, with two of them (Duck Soup and A Night at the Opera) in the top twelve.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
The Mary Rose is a carrack-type warship of the English Tudor navy of King Henry VIII. After serving for 33 years in several wars against France, Scotland, and Brittany and after being substantially rebuilt in 1536, she saw her last action on  1545.
Module or modular may refer to the concept of modularity. It may also refer to:
==Events==
Mythology or godlore refers variously to the collected myths of a group of peopleOxford English Dictionary,  &quot;myth, n. Oxford University Press (Oxford), 2003.
A mind map is a  diagram used to visually organize information. A mind map is hierarchical and shows relationships among pieces of the whole.
thumb|right|A [[.50 BMG|.
Charles Darrow
}}
In biology, a mutation is the permanent alteration of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements.
A microgyrus is an area of the cerebral cortex that includes only four cortical layers instead of six.
Mercantilism was a type of national economic policy designed to maximize the trade of a nation and especially to maximize the accumulation of gold and silver.  It was dominant in modernized parts of Europe from the 16th to the 18th centuries.
Mathematics competitions or mathematical olympiads are competitive events where participants sit a mathematics test. These tests may require multiple choice or numeric answers, or a detailed written solution or proof.
Milk is a white liquid produced by the mammary glands of mammals. It is the primary source of nutrition for infant mammals (including humans who breastfeed) before they are able to digest other types of food.
Magnetism is a class of physical phenomena that are mediated by magnetic fields.  Electric currents and the magnetic moments of elementary particles give rise to a magnetic field, which acts on other currents and magnetic moments.
In mathematics, a filter is a special subset of a partially ordered set. For example, the power set of some set, partially ordered by set inclusion, is a filter.
thumb|400px|Smelting gold in [[Nicaragua in the [Luz Gold Mine|La Luz Gold Mine] in Siuna and Bonanza about 1959. Smelting is a basic step in obtaining usable quantities of most metals.
Marriage, also called matrimony or wedlock, is a socially or ritually recognised union between spouses that establishes rights and obligations between those spouses, as well as between them and any resulting biological or adopted children and affinity (in-laws and other family through marriage). &quot;A nonethnocentric definition of marriage is a culturally sanctioned union between two or more people that establishes certain rights and obligations between the people, between them and their children, and between them and their in-laws.
350px|right|thumb|The runes a:miþkarþi for [[Old Norse à Miðgarði meaning &quot;in Midgard&quot; – &quot;in Middle Earth&quot;, on the Fyrby Runestone (Sö 56) in Södermanland, Sweden.]]
}}
In Norse mythology, Muspelheim (), also called Muspell (), is a realm of fire. This realm is one of the Nine Worlds, ruled by Surtr with his consort Sinmara in some accounts.
Maxwell's equations are a set of partial differential equations that, together with the Lorentz force law, form the foundation of classical electromagnetism, quantum field theory, classical optics, and electric circuits. They underpin all electric, optical and radio technologies, including power generation, electric motors, wireless communication, cameras, televisions, computers etc.
In topology and related areas of mathematics, a metrizable space is a topological space that is homeomorphic to a metric space. That is, a topological space (X, \mathcal{T}) is said to be metrizable if there is a metric
Martin Agricola (6 January 1486 – 10 June 1556) was a German composer of Renaissance music and a music theorist.His German name was Sohr or Sore
Marcus Vipsanius Agrippa (; 64/62 BC – 12 BC) was a Roman consul, statesman, general and architect.  He was a close friend, son-in-law, and lieutenant to Octavian and was responsible for the construction of some of the most notable buildings in the history of Rome and for important military victories, most notably at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC against the forces of Mark Antony and Cleopatra.
Beijing cuisine, also known as Jing cuisine and Mandarin cuisine, and as Beiping cuisine in Taiwan, is the local cuisine of Beijing, the national capital of China.
Manichaeism (;
Moroccan cuisine is influenced by Morocco's interactions and exchanges with other cultures and nations over the centuries. Moroccan cuisine is typically a mix of Arabic, Andalusian, Berber and Mediterranean cuisines with a slight European and Subsaharan influence.
Democratic Free Soil
thumb|Fish cages containing [[salmon in Loch Ailort, Scotland.]]
Memetics is the study of information based on an analogy with Darwinian evolution. Proponents describe memetics as an approach to evolutionary models of cultural information transfer.
==Events==
thumb|right|Moïse Amyraut
Gaius Cilnius Maecenas (; 15 April 68 BC – 8 BC) was an ally, friend and political advisor to Octavian (who was to become the first Emperor of Rome as Caesar Augustus) as well as an important patron for the new generation of Augustan poets, including both Horace and Virgil. During the reign of Augustus, Maecenas served as a quasi-culture minister to the Emperor but in spite of his wealth and power he chose not to enter the Senate, remaining of equestrian rank.
A meander is a bend in a river.
==Events==
Magick, in the context of Aleister Crowley's Thelema, is a term used to show and differentiate the occult from performance magic and is defined as &quot;the Science and Art of causing Change to occur in conformity with Will&quot;, including both &quot;mundane&quot; acts of will as well as ritual magic. Crowley wrote that &quot;it is theoretically possible to cause in any object any change of which that object is capable by nature&quot;.
Tacitus (; ;In Classical Latin, Tacitus' name would be inscribed as MARCVS CLAVDIVS TACITVS AVGVSTVS.Jones, pg.
MV Tampa is a roll-on/roll-off container ship completed in 1984 by Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., Ltd.
thumb|right|Maya numerals
Aggregate series (A2)}}
May Day is a public holiday usually celebrated on May 1. It is an ancient northern hemisphere spring festival.
\frac{x^2 e^{-x^2/\left(2a^2\right)}}{a^3}
250px|thumb|A metastable state of weaker bond (1), a transitional 'saddle' configuration (2) and a stable state of stronger bond (3).
Molecular mass or molecular weight is the mass of a molecule. It is calculated as the sum of the atomic weights of each constituent element multiplied by the number of atoms of that element in the molecular formula.
Metallic bonding is a type of chemical bonding that arises from the electrostatic attractive force between conduction electrons (in the form of an electron cloud of delocalized electrons) and positively charged metal ions. It may be described as the sharing of free electrons among a lattice of positively charged ions (cations).
A methyl group is an alkyl derived from methane, containing one carbon atom bonded to three hydrogen atoms — CH3. In formulas, the group is often abbreviated Me.
The term &quot;mild&quot; originally meant young beer or ale, as opposed to &quot;stale&quot; aged beer or ale with its resulting &quot;tang&quot;. In more recent times, it has been interpreted as having a low gravity or being &quot;mildly hopped&quot;.
}}
Minerva (; ; Etruscan: Menrva) was the Roman goddess of wisdom and strategic warfare, and the sponsor of arts, trade, and strategy. She was born of Metis, who had been swallowed by Jupiter, and burst from her father's head, fully armed and clad in armor.
Mars Direct is a proposal for a human mission to Mars which purports to be both cost-effective and possible with current technology. It was originally detailed in a research paper by Martin Marietta engineers Robert Zubrin and David Baker in 1990, and later expanded upon in Zubrin's 1996 book The Case for Mars.
==Events==
}}
Mars Attacks is a science fiction themed trading card series released in 1962. The cards feature artwork by science-fiction artists Wallace Wood and Norman Saunders.
The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (a protocol to the Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer) is an international treaty designed to protect the ozone layer by phasing out the production of numerous substances that are responsible for ozone depletion. It was agreed on 16 September 1987, and entered into force on 1 January 1989, followed by a first meeting in Helsinki, May 1989.
In mathematics, model theory is the study of classes of mathematical structures (e.g.
Underground most commonly refers to:
The Marañón River (, ) is the principal or mainstem source of the Amazon River, arising about 160 km to the northeast of Lima, Peru, and flowing through a deeply eroded Andean valley in a northwesterly direction, along the eastern base of the Cordillera of the Andes, as far as 5 degrees 36' southern latitude; from where it makes a great bend to the northeast, and cuts through the jungle Andes, until at the Pongo de Manseriche it flows into the flat Amazon basin. Although historically, the term &quot;Marañon River&quot; often was applied to the river all the way to the Atlantic Ocean, nowadays the Marañon River is generally thought to end at the confluence with the Ucayali River, after which most cartographers label the ensuing waterway the Amazon River.
==Events==
Measure may refer to:
}}
}}
In mathematical analysis, a measure on a set is a systematic way to assign a number to each suitable subset of that set, intuitively interpreted as its size. In this sense, a measure is a generalization of the concepts of length, area, and volume.
A motorcycle often called a bike, motorbike, or cycle is a two-&gt; or three-wheeled motor vehicle. Motorcycle design varies greatly to suit a range of different purposes: long distance travel, commuting, cruising, sport including racing, and off-road riding.
A map is a symbolic depiction emphasizing relationships between elements of some space, such as objects, regions, or themes.
Management (or managing) is the  administration of an organization, whether it be a business, a not-for-profit organization, or government body. Management includes the activities of setting the strategy of an organization and coordinating the efforts of its employees (or of volunteers) to accomplish its objectives through the application of available resources, such as financial, natural, technological, and human resources.
Mineralogy is a subject of geology specializing in the scientific study of chemistry, crystal structure, and physical (including optical) properties of minerals and mineralized artifacts. Specific studies within mineralogy include the processes of mineral origin and formation, classification of minerals, their geographical distribution, as well as their utilization.
Maple syrup is a syrup usually made from the xylem sap of sugar maple, red maple, or black maple trees, although it can also be made from other maple species. In cold climates, these trees store starch in their trunks and roots before the winter; the starch is then converted to sugar that rises in the sap in late winter and early spring.
Matthew may refer to:
Male may refer to:
A macron () is a diacritical mark: it is a straight bar  placed above a letter, usually a vowel. Its name derives , since it was originally used to mark long or heavy syllables in Greco-Roman metrics.
A mosque (; from ) is a place of worship for followers of Islam.
A molecular cloud, sometimes called a stellar nursery (if star formation is occurring within), is a type of interstellar cloud, the density and size of which permit the formation of molecules, most commonly molecular hydrogen (H2). This is in contrast to other areas of the interstellar medium that contain predominantly ionized gas.
(English: Of all islands, the most beautiful and free)
Meteorology is a branch of the atmospheric sciences which includes atmospheric chemistry and atmospheric physics, with a major focus on weather forecasting.  The study of meteorology dates back millennia, though significant progress in meteorology did not occur until the 18th century.
__NOTOC__
Meitnerium is a chemical element with symbol Mt and atomic number 109. It is an extremely radioactive synthetic element (an element not found in nature that can be created in a laboratory).
The megabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. Its recommended unit symbol is MB.
}}
, genitive
The IC 342/Maffei Group (also known as the IC 342 Group or the Maffei 1 Group) is the nearest group of galaxies to the Local Group.  The group can be described as a binary group; the member galaxies are mostly concentrated around either IC 342 or Maffei 1, both of which are the brightest galaxies within the group.
The M81 Group is a galaxy group in the constellations Ursa Major and Camelopardalis that includes the  galaxies Messier 81 and Messier 82, as well as several other galaxies with high apparent brightnesses.  The approximate center of the group is located at a distance of 3.
Mensa or Mensae (genitive form) may refer to:
In  poetry, metre is the basic rhythmic structure of a verse or lines in verse.  Many traditional verse forms prescribe a specific verse metre, or a certain set of metres alternating in a particular order.
Matthew Perry (born 1969) is Canadian-American television and film actor.
The stencil duplicator or mimeograph machine (often abbreviated to mimeo) is a low-cost duplicating machine that works by forcing ink through a stencil onto paper. The mimeograph process should not be confused with the spirit duplicator process.
Falling star}}
Mega is a unit prefix in metric systems of units denoting a factor of one million (106 or ). It has the unit symbol M.
thumb|Human vocal tract
A motherboard (sometimes alternatively known as the mainboard, system board, baseboard, planar board or logic board, or colloquially, a mobo) is the main printed circuit board (PCB) found in general purpose microcomputers and other expandable systems. It holds and allows communication between many of the crucial electronic components of a system, such as the central processing unit (CPU) and memory, and provides connectors for other peripherals.
Mannerism is a style in European art that emerged in the later years of the Italian High Renaissance around 1520, lasting until about 1580 in Italy, when the Baroque style began to replace it. Northern Mannerism continued into the early 17th century.
Pressure measurement is the analysis of an applied force by a fluid (liquid or gas) on a surface. Pressure is typically measured in units of force per unit of surface area.
thumb|225px|Dance with musicians, [[Tacuinum sanitatis casanatense (14th century)]]
Medieval music consists of songs, instrumental pieces, and liturgical music from about 500 A.D.
thumb|right|260px|A hydrogen radio frequency discharge, the first element inside a [[#Hydrogen maser|hydrogen maser (see description below)]]
Mark Anthony}}
Morphogenesis (from the Greek morphê shape and genesis creation, literally, &quot;beginning of the shape&quot;) is the biological process that causes an organism to develop its shape. It is one of three fundamental aspects of developmental biology along with the control of cell growth and cellular differentiation, unified in evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo).
Medium may refer to:
MCA may refer to:
A magical organization or magical order is an organization created for the practice of magic or to further the knowledge of magic among its members. &quot;Magic&quot; in this case refers to occult, metaphysical and paranormal activities, not to the performance of stage magic.
Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT (not to be confused with computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation (MAHT) or interactive translation) is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the use of software to translate text or speech from one language to another.
In probability theory and statistics, a central moment is a moment of a probability distribution of a random variable about the random variable's mean; that is, it is the expected value of a specified integer power of the deviation of the random variable from the mean. The various moments form one set of values by which the properties of a probability distribution can be usefully characterised.
Murad II (June 1404 – 3 February 1451) (Ottoman Turkish: مراد ثانى Murād-ı sānī, Turkish:II. Murat) was the Ottoman Sultan from 1421 to 1444 and 1446 to 1451.
Saw (musical instrument)}}
MIDI (; short for Musical Instrument Digital Interface) is a technical standard that describes a communications protocol, digital interface and electrical connectors and allows a wide variety of electronic musical instruments, computers and other related music and audio devices to connect and communicate with one another. A single MIDI link can carry up to sixteen channels of information, each of which can be routed to a separate device.
Microcode is &quot;a technique that imposes an interpreter between the hardware and the architectural level of a computer&quot;. As such, the microcode is a layer of hardware-level instructions that implement higher-level machine code instructions or internal state machine sequencing in many digital processing elements.
Three-tier system}}
Myrinet, ANSI/VITA 26-1998, is a high-speed local area networking system designed by the company Myricom to be used as an interconnect between multiple machines to form computer clusters.
Musique concrète (, meaning &quot;concrete music&quot;)&quot;[A] problem for any translator of an academic work in French is that the language is relatively abstract and theoretical compared to English; one might even say that the mode of thinking itself tends to be more schematic, with a readiness to see material for study in terms of highly abstract dualisms and correlations, which on occasion does not sit
In mathematics, a metric space is a set for which distances  between all members of the set are defined. Those distances, taken together, are  called a metric on the set.
Marine biology is the scientific study of organisms in the sea.  Given that in biology many phyla, families and genera have some species that live in the sea and others that live on land, marine biology classifies species based on the environment rather than on taxonomy.
In computer science, a microkernel (also known as μ-kernel) is the near-minimum amount of software that can provide the mechanisms needed to implement an operating system (OS). These mechanisms include low-level address space management, thread management, and inter-process communication (IPC).
Mach may refer to:
}}
The Multics Relational Data Store, or MRDS for short, was the first commercial relational database management system. It was written in PL/1 by Honeywell for the Multics operating system and first sold in June 1976.
In mathematics and computer science, mutual recursion is a form of recursion where two mathematical or computational objects, such as functions or data types, are defined in terms of each other.Manuel Rubio-Sánchez, Jaime Urquiza-Fuentes,Cristóbal Pareja-Flores (2002), 'A Gentle Introduction to Mutual Recursion', Proceedings of the 13th annual conference on Innovation and technology in computer science education, June 30–July 2, 2008, Madrid, Spain.
A metasyntactic variable is a specific word or set of words identified as a placeholder in computer science and specifically computer programming. These words are commonly found in source code and are intended to be modified or substituted to be applicable to the specific usage before compilation (translation to an executable).
A mondegreen  is a mishearing or misinterpretation of a phrase as a result of near-homophony, in a way that gives it a new meaning. Mondegreens are most often created by a person listening to a poem or a song; the listener, being unable to clearly hear a lyric, substitutes words that sound similar and make some kind of sense.
In computer science, merge sort (also commonly spelled mergesort) is an efficient, general-purpose, comparison-based sorting algorithm. Most implementations produce a stable sort, which means that the implementation preserves the input order of equal elements in the sorted output.
Maule Air, Inc. is a manufacturer of light, single-engined, short take-off and landing (STOL) aircraft, based in Moultrie, Georgia, USA.
This is a page on the advancement of Constructive Living. This is not a valid or reliable scholarly source on Shoma Morita, the founder of Morita therapy.
Montezuma, Moctezuma, Moteczoma, Motecuhzoma, Moteuczomah, and Mwatazuma are variant spellings of the same word and may refer to:
Mooney is a family name, which is probably predominantly derived from the Irish Ó Maonaigh. It can also be spelled Moony, Moonie, Mainey, Mauney, Meaney and Meeney depending on the dialectic pronunciation that was Anglicised.
300px|right|thumb|An [[F/A-18 Hornet creating a vapor cone at transonic speed just before reaching the speed of sound]]
==Events==
==Events==
The Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) is a working group of authorities that was formed by ISO and IEC to set standards for audio and video compression and transmission.John Watkinson, The MPEG Handbook, p.
MPEG-1 is a standard for lossy compression of video and audio.  It is designed to compress VHS-quality raw digital video and CD audio down to 1.
In number theory, a multiplicative function is an arithmetic function f(n) of a positive integer n with the property that f(1) = 1 and whenever
thumb|right|MPEG-2 is used in Digital Video Broadcast and DVDs. The [[MPEG transport stream, TS, and MPEG program stream, PS, are container formats.
MPEG-3 is the designation for a group of audio and video coding standards agreed upon by the Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) designed to handle HDTV signals at 1080p in the range of 20 to 40 megabits per second. MPEG-3 was launched as an effort to address the need of an HDTV standard while work on MPEG-2 was underway, but it was soon discovered that MPEG-2, at high data rates, would accommodate HDTV.
Meditation is a practice where an individual operates or trains the mind or induces a mode of consciousness, either to realize some benefit or for the mind to simply acknowledge its content without becoming identified with that content, or as an end in itself.Watts, Alan.
MPEG-4 is a method of defining compression of audio and visual (AV) digital data.  It was introduced in late 1998 and designated a standard for a group of audio and video coding formats and related technology agreed upon by the ISO/IEC Moving Picture Experts Group (MPEG) (ISO/IEC JTC1/SC29/WG11) under the formal standard ISO/IEC 14496 – Coding of audio-visual objects.
Maritime archaeology (also known as marine archaeology) is a discipline within archaeology as a whole  that specifically studies human interaction with the sea,Maritime History, Archaeology and Travel Research Project lakes and rivers through the study of  associated physical remains, be they  vessels, shore side facilities, port-related structures, cargoes, human remains and submerged landscapes.  A specialty within maritime archaeology is nautical archaeology, which studies vessel construction and use.
), Tsunemori ()
In a computer, the Memory Address  Register (MAR) is the CPU register that either stores the memory address from which data will be fetched to the CPU or the address to which data will be sent and stored.
The Memory Data Register (MDR) or Memory Buffer Register (MBR) is the register of a  computer's control unit that contains the data to be stored in the computer storage (e.g.
A microassembler is a computer program that helps prepare a microprogram, called firmware, to control the low level operation of a computer in much the same way an assembler helps prepare higher level code for a processor. The difference is that the microprogram is usually only developed by the processor manufacturer and works intimately with the computer hardware.
A machine pistol is typically a handgun-style,James Smyth Wallace. Chemical Analysis of Firearms, Ammunition, and Gunshot Residue.
MLK are the initials of Martin Luther King Jr. (1929–1968).
Martin Luther King Jr. (1929–1968) was a minister and Civil Rights activist.
In mathematics, modular arithmetic is a system of arithmetic for integers, where numbers &quot;wrap around&quot; upon reaching a certain value—the modulus (plural moduli).  The modern approach to modular arithmetic was developed by Carl Friedrich Gauss in his book Disquisitiones Arithmeticae, published in 1801.
A myriad (from Ancient Greek , myrias) is technically the number ten thousand; in that sense, the term is used almost exclusively in translations from Greek, Latin, or Chinese, or when talking about ancient Greek numbers. More generally, a myriad may be an indefinitely large number of things.
Marmite ( ) is the brand name for two similar food spreads: the original British version currently produced by Unilever; and a modified version produced in New Zealand by Sanitarium Health Food Company and distributed in Australia and the Pacific. Marmite is made from yeast extract, a by-product of beer brewing.
Mabon ap Modron is a prominent figure from Welsh literature and mythology, the son of Modron and a member of Arthur's war band. Both he and his mother were likely deities in origin, descending from a divine mother–son pair.
Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from one meter to one millimeter; with frequencies between  and .Pozar, David M.
Mary may refer to:
Methodism or the Methodist movement|group=&quot;nb&quot;|name=&quot;Methodist&quot;}} is a group of historically related denominations of Protestant Christianity which derive their inspiration from the life and teachings of John Wesley. George Whitefield and John's brother Charles Wesley were also significant leaders in the movement.
Mancala, is a [name for a family of 2-player turn-based] [[Strategy game|strategy board games played with small stones, beans, or seeds and rows of holes or pits in the earth, a board or other playing surface.  The objective is usually to capture all or some set of the opponent's stones, beans, etc.
Shang-Chi () is a fictional character, often called the &quot;Master of Kung Fu&quot;, appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He was created by writer Steve Englehart and artist Jim Starlin.
,
thumb|right|400px|The Roman Empire under [[Hadrian (ruled 117-138), showing the location of the  Marcomanni   in the region of the upper Danube (modern N Austria/Czech republic)]]
Maroboduus (born c. in 30 BC, died in AD 37), whose German name was Marbod, was a Romanized king of the Germanic Suebi, who under pressure from the wars of the Cherusci and Romans, and losing the Suevic Semnones and Langobardi from his kingdom, moved with the Marcomanni into the forests of Bohemia, near to the Quadi.
)
Maus is a series of Pulitzer Prize-winning graphic novels by Art Spiegelman.
A mousse (French 'foam' ) is a soft prepared food that incorporates air bubbles to give it a light and airy texture. It can range from light and fluffy to creamy and thick, depending on preparation techniques.
The Montreal Expos () were a Canadian professional baseball team based in Montreal, Quebec. The Expos were the first Major League Baseball (MLB) franchise located outside the United States.
A metallocene is a compound typically consisting of two cyclopentadienyl anions (Cp, which is ) bound to a metal center (M) in the oxidation state II, with the resulting general formula (C5H5)2M. Closely related to the metallocenes are the metallocene derivatives, e.
A maze is a path or collection of paths, typically from an entrance to a goal.  The word is used to refer both to branching tour puzzles through which the solver must find a route, and to simpler non-branching (&quot;unicursal&quot;) patterns that lead unambiguously through a convoluted layout to a goal.
MIPS may refer to:
Mexican cuisine is primarily a fusion of indigenous Mesoamerican cooking with European, especially Spanish, elements added after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire in the 16th century. The staples are native foods, such as corn, beans, avocados, tomatoes, and chili peppers, along with rice, which was brought by the Spanish.
Murder is the unlawful killing of another human without justification or valid excuse, especially the unlawful killing of another human being with malice aforethought.West's Encyclopedia of American Law, (2d ed.
thumb|Launch of [[Mariner 1 in 1962]]
}}
Marienburg may refer to:
Motorcycle sport is a broad field that encompasses all sporting aspects of motorcycling. The disciplines are not all races or timed-speed events, as several disciplines test a competitor's various riding skills.
thumb|Miniature from the early 12th-century manuscript of [[Donizo's Vita Mathildis, emphasising Matilda's key role in the absolution of Henry IV at Canossa. Henry kneels at her feet in supplication, while Abbot Hugh of Cluny points towards her.
Mesopotamia (,  &quot;[land] between rivers&quot;;  bilād ar-rāfidayn; ;  miyān rudān;  Beth Nahrain &quot;land of rivers&quot;) was a historical region situated within the Tigris–Euphrates river system, in modern days roughly corresponding to most of Iraq plus Kuwait, the eastern parts of Syria, Southeastern Turkey, and regions along the Turkish-Syrian and Iran–Iraq borders.
thumb|200px|Coat of arms of Mecklenburg, featuring the typical bull
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Management science (MS), is the broad interdisciplinary study of problem solving and decision making in human organizations, with strong links to management, economics, business, engineering, management consulting, and other sciences. It uses various scientific research-based principles, strategies, and analytical methods including  mathematical modeling, statistics and numerical algorithms to improve an organization's ability to enact rational and accurate management decisions by arriving at optimal or near optimal solutions to complex decision problems.
Music notation or musical notation is any system used to visually represent [perceived music] played with [[instrument (music)|instruments or sung by the human voice through the use of written, printed, or otherwise-produced symbols, including ancient symbols or modern musical symbols and including ancient symbols cut into stone, made in clay tablets or made using a pen on papyrus, parchment or manuscript paper; printed using a printing press (ca. 1400s), a computer printer (ca.
Marietta Alboni (6 March 1826Date stated by both Ciliberti and Pougin; the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica gives the year as 1823. – 23 June 1894) was a renowned Italian contralto opera singer.
Manatees (family Trichechidae, genus Trichechus) are large, fully aquatic, mostly herbivorous marine mammals sometimes known as sea cows. There are three accepted living species of Trichechidae, representing three of the four living species in the order Sirenia: the Amazonian manatee (Trichechus inunguis), the West Indian manatee (Trichechus manatus), and the West African manatee (Trichechus senegalensis).
March 24th is the 365th and last day of the year in many European implementations of the Julian calendar.
==Events==
==Events==
Multiple-image Network Graphics (MNG) is a graphics file format, published in 2001, for animated images. Its specification is publicly documented and there are free software reference implementations available.
&quot; or &quot;&quot;
border
Mycoplasma genitalium is a small pathogenic bacterium that lives on the ciliated epithelial cells of the urinary and genital tracts in humans. Its existence was first reported in 1981, and was eventually identified as a new species of Mycoplasma in 1983.
}}
==Events==
A mummy is a deceased human or an animal whose skin and organs have been preserved by either intentional or accidental exposure to chemicals, extreme cold, very low humidity, or lack of air, so that the recovered body does not decay further if kept in cool and dry conditions. Some authorities restrict the use of the term to bodies deliberately embalmed with chemicals, but the use of the word to cover accidentally desiccated bodies goes back to at least 1615 AD (See the section Etymology and meaning).
thumb|right|255px|Homemade [[macaroni and cheese, with dried herbs and ground pepper]]
thumb|300px|
In phonology, minimal pairs are pairs of words or phrases in a particular language that differ in only one phonological element, such as a phoneme, toneme or chroneme, and have distinct meanings. They are used to demonstrate that two phones are two separate phonemes in the language.
Minestrone (; ) is a thick soup of Italian origin made with vegetables, often with the addition of pasta or rice, sometimes both. Common ingredients include beans, onions, celery, carrots, stock, and tomatoes.
Fictional representations of Mars have been popular for over a century. Interest in Mars has been stimulated by the planet's dramatic red color, by early scientific speculations that its surface conditions might be capable of supporting life, and by the possibility that Mars could be colonized by humans in the future.
The McIntosh ( ), McIntosh Red, or colloquially the Mac is an apple cultivar, the national apple of Canada. The fruit has red and green skin, a tart flavour, and tender white flesh, which ripens in late September.
right|thumb|375px|Older machete from Latin America
A mushroom (or toadstool) is the fleshy, spore-bearing fruiting body of a fungus, typically produced above ground on soil or on its food source.
Mainframe computers (colloquially referred to as &quot;big iron&quot;) are computers used primarily by large organizations for critical applications, bulk data processing, such as census, industry and consumer statistics, enterprise resource planning, and transaction processing.
A minicomputer, or colloquially mini, is a class of smaller computers that was developed in the mid-1960s and sold for much less than mainframe and mid-size computers from IBM and its direct competitors. In a 1970 survey, the New York Times suggested a consensus definition of a minicomputer as a machine costing less than , with an input-output device such as a teleprinter and at least four thousand words of memory, that is capable of running programs in a higher level language, such as Fortran or BASIC.
==Events==
300px|right|thumb|U.S.
Micah (; ) is a given name.
Malachi, Malachias, Malache or Mal'achi (; ) was the writer of the Book of Malachi, the last book of the Neviim (prophets) section in the Hebrew Bible. No allusion is made to him by Ezra, however, and he does not directly mention the restoration of the temple.
border
}}
MOS Technology 65xx refers to a family of 8-bit microprocessors from MOS Technology, based on the Motorola 6800 (introduced ca. 1975).
[Technologies large.jpg|thumb|300px|Image of the internals of a Commodore 64] showing the 6510 CPU (40-pin [[Dual in-line package|DIP, lower left).
thumb|250px|XC68020, a prototype of the 68020
In chemistry, the mole fraction or molar fraction (xi) is defined as the amount of a constituent (expressed in moles), ni, divided by the total amount of all constituents in a mixture (also expressed in moles), ntot:
Military Academy}}
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
A macrobiotic diet (or macrobiotics) is a fad diet fixed on ideas about types of food drawn from Zen Buddhism. The diet attempts to balance the supposed yin and yang elements of food and cookware.
US$ 11.851 billion (2013)}}| US$ 12.
The Mazda MX-5, released as the Mazda MX-5 Miata  in North America and as the Eunos Roadster in Japan, is a lightweight two-seater roadster with a front-engine, rear-wheel-drive layout. Manufactured by Mazda in Hiroshima, Japan, the model debuted in 1989 at the Chicago Auto Show.
}}
thumb|180px|A Motorola 68040 microprocessorthumb|180px|Motorola 68040 die shot with FPU on the left
thumb|A Motorola 68EC060 microprocessor
thumb|200 px|1 MHz Motorola 6809P processor, is a C65P [[mask set manufactured the tenth week of 1992.]]
thumb|Motorola MC68HC11 in a 48-pin [[dual in-line package (DIP)]]
In astrology, the day of the equinox is the first full day of the sign of Aries. It is also the traditional first day of the astrological year.
Mainframe may refer to any of the following:
The Merovingians () were a Salian Frankish dynasty that ruled the Franks for nearly 300 years in a region known as Francia in Latin, beginning in the middle of the 5th century. Their territory largely corresponded to ancient Gaul as well as the Roman provinces of Raetia, Germania Superior and the southern part of Germania.
The Morrígan (&quot;phantom queen&quot;) or Mórrígan (&quot;great queen&quot;), also known as Morrígu, is a figure from Irish mythology. The name is spelled Morríghan or Mór-Ríoghain in Modern Irish.
Mary was a programming language designed and implemented by RUNIT at Trondheim, Norway in the 1970s. It borrowed many features from ALGOL 68 but was designed for machine-oriented programming.
The term mountaineering describes the sport of mountain climbing. While some scholars identify mountaineering-related activities as climbing (rock and ice) and trekking up mountains,Whitlock, W.
The meaning of life, or the answer to the question &quot;What is the meaning of life?&quot;, pertains to the significance of living or existence in general.
Metrication or metrification is conversion to the metric system of units of measurement. Worldwide, there has been a long process of independent conversions of countries from various local and traditional systems, beginning in France during the 1790s and spreading widely over the following two centuries, but the metric system has not been fully adopted in all countries and sectors.
A month is a unit of time, used with calendars, which is approximately as long as a natural period related to the motion of the Moon; month and Moon are cognates. The traditional concept arose with the cycle of moon phases; such months (lunations) are synodic months and last approximately 29.
Medical psychology is the application of psychological principles to the practice of medicine, primarily drug-oriented, for both physical and mental disorders.
Music lessons are a type of formal instruction in playing a musical instrument or singing. Typically, a student taking music lessons meets a music teacher for one-on-one training sessions ranging from 30 minutes to one hour in length over a period of weeks or years.
In genetics, a mutagen is a physical or chemical agent that changes the genetic material, usually DNA, of an organism and thus increases the frequency of mutations above the natural background level. As many mutations can cause cancer, mutagens are therefore also likely to be carcinogens, although not always necessarily so.
}}
Merge algorithms are a family of algorithms that take multiple sorted lists as input and produce a single list as output, containing all the elements of the inputs lists in sorted order. These algorithms are used as subroutines in various sorting algorithms, most famously merge sort.
ML, mL, or ml may refer to:
Midwestern cuisine is a regional cuisine of the American Midwest. It draws its culinary roots most significantly from the cuisines of Central, Northern and Eastern Europe, and is influenced by regionally and locally grown foodstuffsCrook, Nathan C.
Moor may refer to:
In cell biology, mitosis is a part of the cell cycle when replicated chromosomes are separated into two new nuclei. In general, mitosis (division of the nucleus) is preceded by the S stage of interphase (during which the DNA is replicated) and is often accompanied or followed by cytokinesis, which divides the cytoplasm, organelles and cell membrane into two new cells containing roughly equal shares of these cellular components.
Metabolism (from  metabolē, &quot;change&quot;) is the set of life-sustaining chemical transformations within the cells of living organisms. The three main purposes of metabolism are the conversion of food/fuel to energy to run cellular processes, the conversion of food/fuel to building blocks for proteins, lipids, nucleic acids, and some carbohydrates, and the elimination of nitrogenous wastes.
The Medieval Inquisition was a series of Inquisitions (Catholic Church bodies charged with suppressing heresy ) from around 1184, including the Episcopal Inquisition (1184–1230s) and later the Papal Inquisition (1230s). The Medieval Inquisition was established in response to movements considered apostate or heretical to Christianity, in particular Catharism and Waldensians in Southern France and Northern Italy.
A microorganism or microbe is a microscopic organism, which may be single-celled or multicellular. The study of microorganisms is called microbiology, a subject that began with the discovery of microorganisms in the 1670s by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek.
Modulus is the diminutive from the Latin word modus meaning measure or manner. It, or its plural moduli, may refer to:
A micronation, sometimes referred to as a model country or new country project, is an entity that claims to be an independent nation or state but is not recognized by world governments or major international organizations.
Mining is the extraction of valuable minerals or other geological materials from the earth usually from an orebody, lode, vein, seam,  reef or placer deposits. These deposits form a mineralized package that is of economic interest to the miner.
The following is an overview of the demographics of Myanmar (also known as Burma), including statistics such as population, ethnicity, language, education level and religious affiliation.
Myanmar (also known as Burma) is a unitary parliamentary republic under its constitution of 2008.
Myanmar has begun the liberalization of its telecoms market in 2013.
The government of Myanmar (earlier known as Burma) has two ministries controlling transportation:
}}}}
Historically strained, Myanmar's foreign relations, particularly with Western nations, have improved since 2012. Myanmar (also known as Burma) has generally maintained warmer relations with neighbouring states and is a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.
Muonium is an exotic atom made up of an antimuon and an electron,
thumb|An [[Ojibwe people|Ojibwe midew (ceremonial leader) in a mide-wiigiwaam (medicine lodge).]]
The Malay Peninsula (; , , ) is a peninsula in Southeast Asia. The land mass runs approximately north-south and, at its terminus, is the southernmost point of the Asian mainland.
M-theory is a theory in physics that unifies all consistent versions of superstring theory. The existence of such a theory was first conjectured by Edward Witten at a string theory conference at the University of Southern California in the spring of 1995.
right|250px
,
thumb|right|200px|Animation of the Moon as it cycles through its phases, as seen from the northern hemisphere. The apparent wobbling of the Moon is known as [[libration.
For astronomy and calendar studies, the Metonic cycle or Enneadecaeteris (from , &quot;nineteen years&quot;) is a period of very close to 19 years that is  nearly a common multiple of the solar year and the synodic (lunar) month. The Greek astronomer Meton of Athens (fifth century BC) observed that a period of 19 years is almost exactly equal to 235 synodic months and, rounded to full days, counts 6,940 days.
==Events==
In Newtonian mechanics, linear momentum, translational momentum, or simply momentum (pl. momenta) is the product of the mass and velocity of an object.
A mood stabilizer is a psychiatric pharmaceutical drug used to treat mood disorders characterized by intense and sustained mood shifts, typically bipolar disorder type I or type II or schizophrenia.
}}
MIDI time code (MTC) embeds the same timing information as standard SMPTE timecode as a series of small 'quarter-frame' MIDI messages. There is no provision for the user bits in the standard MIDI time code messages, and SysEx messages are used to carry this information  instead.
Mass transfer is the net movement of mass from one location, usually meaning  stream, phase, fraction or component, to another. Mass transfer occurs in many processes, such as absorption, evaporation, drying, precipitation, membrane filtration, and distillation.
The Museum of Jurassic Technology is a museum located at 9341 Venice Boulevard in the Palms district of Los Angeles, California.  It was founded by David Hildebrand Wilson and Diana Drake Wilson (husband and wife) in 1988.
Meconium is the earliest stool of a mammalian infant. Unlike later feces, meconium is composed of materials ingested during the time the infant spends in the uterus: intestinal epithelial cells, lanugo, mucus, amniotic fluid, bile, and water.
Musicology () is the scholarly analysis and research-based study of music. Musicology is part of the humanities.
Film promotion is the practice of promotion specifically in the film industry, and usually occurs in coordination with the process of film distribution. Sometimes called the press junket or film junket, film promotion generally includes press releases, advertising campaigns, merchandising, franchising, media and interviews with the key people involved with the making of the film, like actors and directors.
Miltiades the Younger (c. 550 – 489 BC) was tyrant of the Thracian Chersonese and the Athenian commanding general in the Battle of Marathon.
}}
The M25 or London Orbital Motorway is a  motorway that encircles almost all of Greater London, England (with the exception of North Ockendon), in the United Kingdom. An ambitious concept to build four concentric ring roads around London was first mooted in the 1960s.
The Mohs scale of mineral hardness is a qualitative ordinal scale characterizing scratch resistance of various minerals through the ability of harder material to scratch softer material. Created in 1812 by German geologist and mineralogist Friedrich Mohs, it is one of several definitions of hardness in materials science, some of which are more quantitative.
The magnetopause is the abrupt boundary between a magnetosphere and the surrounding plasma.  For planetary science, the magnetopause is the boundary between the planet’s magnetic field and the solar wind.
A magnetosphere is the region of space surrounding an astronomical object in which charged particles are controlled by that object's magnetic field. The magnetic field near the surface of many astronomical objects resembles that of a dipole.
The Messerschmitt Me 163 Komet, designed by Alexander Lippisch, was a German rocket-powered fighter aircraft. It is the only rocket-powered fighter aircraft ever to have been operational and the first piloted aircraft of any type to exceed 1000 km/h (621 mph) in level flight.
The Messerschmitt Me 262, nicknamed Schwalbe (German: &quot;Swallow&quot;) in fighter versions, or Sturmvogel (German: &quot;Storm Bird&quot;) in fighter-bomber versions, was the world's first operational jet-powered fighter aircraft. Design work started before World War II began, but problems with engines, metallurgy and top-level interference kept the aircraft from operational status with the Luftwaffe until mid-1944.
Masuria (, , Masurian: Mazurÿ) is a region in northern Poland famous for its 2,000 lakes. Before the end of World War II, it was mostly inhabited by Polish-speaking (Masurian dialect) Lutheran Masurians and constituted a part of East Prussia.
Magnus, meaning &quot;great&quot; in Latin, was sometimes used as a first name among Romans but was not particularly common among them. The best-known Roman bearing the name was the third-century usurper.
Medieval warfare is the European warfare of the Middle Ages. Technological, cultural, and social developments had forced a dramatic transformation in the character of warfare from antiquity, changing military tactics and the role of cavalry and artillery.
Magnetic tape is a medium for magnetic recording, made of a thin, magnetizable coating on a long, narrow strip of plastic film.  It was developed in Germany, based on magnetic wire recording.
Mabo v Queensland (No 2) (commonly known as Mabo) was a landmark High Court of Australia decision in 1992 recognising native title in Australia for the first time.
MeatballWiki was a wiki dedicated to online communities, network culture, and hypermedia.
In poetry, a monometer is a line of verse with just one metrical foot or dipodycan be exemplified by this portion of Robert Herrick]'s poem &quot;Upon His Departure Hence&quot;:Works of Robert Herrick Vol 1 ed. Alfred Pollard, Lawrence &amp; Bullen 1891
Afghan Air Force helicopter flies over Mazar-i-Sharif
A metaphor is a figure of speech that refers, for rhetorical effect, to one thing by mentioning another thing. It may provide clarity or identify hidden similarities between two ideas.
A monk is a person who practices a strict religious and ascetic lifestyle.
Medieval fortification refers to medieval military methods that cover the development of fortification construction and use in Europe, roughly from the fall of the Western Roman Empire to the Renaissance. During this millennium, fortifications changed warfare, and in turn were modified to suit new tactics, weapons and siege techniques.
MAD or Mad may refer to:
Railway modelling (UK, Australia and Ireland) or model railroading (US and Canada) is a hobby in which rail transport systems are modelled at a reduced scale.
}}
A mirror is an object that reflects light in such a way that, for incident light in some range of wavelengths, the reflected light preserves many or most of the detailed physical characteristics of the original light. This is different from other light-reflecting objects that do not preserve much of the original wave signal other than color and diffuse reflected light.
Moveable Feast}}
thumb|150px|[[Erythromycin. The macrolide ring is the lactone (cyclic ester) at upper-left.
Meta elements are tags used in HTML and XHTML documents to provide structured metadata about a Web page.
}}
A macro (short for &quot;macroinstruction&quot;, from Greek  'long') in computer science is a rule or pattern that specifies how a certain input sequence (often a sequence of characters) should be mapped to a replacement output sequence (also often a sequence of characters) according to a defined procedure. The mapping process that instantiates (transforms) a macro use into a specific sequence is known as macro expansion.
.
In archaeology, the Mesolithic (Greek: μέσος, mesos &quot;middle&quot;; λίθος, lithos &quot;stone&quot;) is the period between Paleolithic and Neolithic. The term &quot;Epipaleolithic&quot; is often used for areas outside northern Europe, but was also the preferred synonym used by French archaeologists until the 1960s.
Metis or Métis may refer to:
Musical theatre is a form of theatrical performance that combines songs, spoken dialogue, acting, and dance. The story and emotional content of a musical – humor, pathos, love, anger – are communicated through the words, music, movement and technical aspects of the entertainment as an integrated whole.
Micron can refer to:
A magic lantern is an early type of image projector, an ancestor of the modern slide projector.
In physics, motion is a change in position of an object over time. Motion is  described in terms of displacement, distance, velocity, acceleration, time and speed.
In the law of torts, malpractice, also known as professional negligence,  is an &quot;instance of negligence or incompetence on the part of a professional&quot;.Black's Law Dictionary (9th ed.
Mediation is a dynamic, structured, interactive process where a neutral third party assists disputing parties in resolving conflict through the use of specialized communication and negotiation techniques. All participants in mediation are encouraged to actively participate in the process.
A misdemeanor (American English) or misdemeanour (British English) is any &quot;lesser&quot; criminal act in some common law legal systems.  Misdemeanors are generally punished less severely than felonies, but theoretically more so than administrative infractions (also known as minor, petty, or summary offences) and regulatory offences.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Mimas may refer to:
==Astronomy==
A mathematical model is a description of a system using mathematical concepts and language. The process of developing a mathematical model is termed mathematical modeling.
, also known as , was a Japanese statesman, courtier and politician of the early Heian period.Nussbaum, Louis-Frédéric.
thumb|right|Fujiwara no Michinaga — drawing [[Kikuchi Yōsai (1781-1878)]]
thumb|right|80px|[[Princess Nukata|Nukata no Ōkimi, a replica from vol.1]]
Mieszko II Lambert (; c. 990 – 10/11 May 1034) was King of Poland from 1025–1031, and Duke from 1032 until his death.
Mieszko I (; ca. 930 – 25 May 992) was the ruler of the PolansWitold Chrzanowski: Kronika Słowian: Polanie.
thumb|Maggieknockater
Millbridge is a small neighbourhood of Plymouth, on the boundary of what used to be the towns of Plymouth and Devonport, in the English county of Devon.
The Messier objects  are a set of over 100 astronomical objects first listed by French astronomer Charles Messier in 1771.
, p. 99
thumb|300px|A cladogram of the [[primates, showing a monophyletic taxon: the simians (in yellow); a paraphyletic taxon: the prosimians (in cyan, including the red patch); and a polyphyletic group: the night-active primates, i.e.
Mechanical advantage is a measure of the force amplification achieved by using a tool, mechanical device or machine system. The device preserves the input power and simply trades off forces against movement to obtain a desired amplification in the output force.
Microtubules ([+ tube] + [are a component of the [[cytoskeleton], found throughout the [[cytoplasm. These tubular polymers of tubulin can grow as long as 50 micrometres and are highly dynamic.
A militia  is generally an army or some other type of fighting unit that is composed of non-professional fighters, citizens of a nation or subjects of a state or government who can be called upon to enter a combat situation, as opposed to a professional force of regular, full-time military personnel, or historically, members of a warrior nobility class (e.g.
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) is a type of  data-carrying technique for high-performance telecommunications networks. MPLS directs data from one network node to the next based on short path labels rather than long network addresses, avoiding complex lookups in a routing table.
Within Internet message handling services (MHS), a message transfer agentMTA=Message Transfer Agent (similar to X.400 name) is found, e.
Makran () (pronounced [mæk'rɑːn]) is a semi-desert coastal strip in Balochistan, in Pakistan and Iran, along the coast of the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman.
Mozzarella (; ) is a traditionally southern Italian dairy product made from Italian buffalo's milk by the pasta filata method. Mozzarella received a Traditional Specialities Guaranteed certification from the European Union in 1998.
In Greek mythology, the Minotaur (, ;  , , Etruscan: Θevrumineś) was a creature with the head of a bull and the body of a man&quot;Minotaur&quot; at dictionary.reference.
The memex (originally coined &quot;at random&quot;, though sometimes said to be a portmanteau of &quot;memory&quot; and &quot;index&quot;) is the name of the hypothetical proto-hypertext system that Vannevar Bush described in his 1945 The Atlantic Monthly article &quot;As We May Think&quot;. Bush envisioned the memex as a device in which individuals would compress and store all of their books, records, and communications, &quot;mechanized so that it may be consulted with exceeding speed and flexibility.
In electronics and telecommunications, modulation is the process of varying one or more properties of a periodic waveform, called the carrier signal, with a modulating signal that typically contains information to be transmitted. Most radio systems in the 20th century used frequency modulation (FM) or amplitude modulation (AM) to make the carrier carry the radio broadcast.
The Medallions were an American doo-wop vocal group led by Vernon Green (1937–2000).
}}
Melting, or fusion, is a physical process that results in the phase transition of a substance from a solid to a liquid. This occurs when the internal energy of the solid increases, typically by the application of heat or pressure, which increases the substance's temperature to the melting point.
Macroevolution is evolution on a scale at or above the level of species, in contrast with microevolution, which refers to smaller evolutionary changes of allele frequencies within a species or population. Macroevolution and microevolution describe fundamentally identical processes on different time scales.
Martin Waldseemüller (Latinized as Martinus Ilacomylus, Ilacomilus or Hylacomylus; 11 September 1470 – 16 March 1520) was a German cartographer.
David Ellefson, Dave Mustaine, Shawn Drover and Chris Broderick. In the background artwork is mascot Vic Rattlehead.
Blue Marlin is a semi-submersible heavy lift ship from Dockwise Shipping of the Netherlands. Designed to transport very large semi-submersible drilling rigs above the transport ship's deck, it is equipped with 38 cabins to accommodate 60 people, a workout room, sauna and swimming facilities.
Moonie is a pejorative term sometimes used to refer to members of the Unification Church. This is derived from the name of the church's founder Sun Myung Moon, and was first used in 1974 by the American media.
The Mercalli intensity scale is a seismic scale used for measuring the intensity of an earthquake. It measures the effects of an earthquake.
}}
250 px|thumb|[[Gustave Doré's illustration of King Minos for Dante Alighieri's Inferno.]]
The Metre Convention (), also known as the Treaty of the Metre, is an international treaty that was signed in Paris on 20 May 1875 by representatives of 17 nations. (Argentina, Austria-Hungary, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Peru, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden and Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, United States of America and Venezuela).
Mac}}
Blockbuster}}
}}
Machine code or machine language is a set of instructions executed directly by a computer's central processing unit (CPU). Each instruction performs a very specific task, such as a load, a jump, or an ALU operation on a unit of data in a CPU register or memory.
Instructions per second (IPS) is a measure of a computer's processor speed.  Many reported IPS values have represented &quot;peak&quot; execution rates on artificial instruction sequences with few branches, whereas realistic workloads typically lead to significantly lower IPS values.
; top)(S)-(+)-modafinil (bottom)
}}
Metric or metrical may refer to:
* Masortim (singular: &quot;Masorti&quot;), the self-appellation of traditional, not strictly observant Jews in Israel, who mostly identify with Orthodox Judaism.
Mathilde Roth Schechter (also Matilda; December 16, 1859 – August 27, 1924) was the American founder of the U.S.
(N.S.
Manu may refer to:
Marbury v. Madison, , is a landmark United States Supreme Court case which forms the basis for the exercise of judicial review in the United States under Article III of the Constitution.
Accessed on 12 November 2009Anglican Communion
The M'Naghten rule (pronounced, and sometimes spelled, McNaughton) is any variant of the 1840s jury instruction in a criminal case when there is a defense of insanity:
Mongolism may refer to:
A mineraloid is a mineral-like substance that does not demonstrate crystallinity. Mineraloids possess chemical compositions that vary beyond the generally accepted ranges for specific minerals.
The mathematical formulations of quantum mechanics are those mathematical formalisms that permit a rigorous description of quantum mechanics. Such are distinguished from mathematical formalisms for theories developed prior to the early 1900s by the use of abstract mathematical structures, such as infinite-dimensional Hilbert spaces and operators on these spaces.
}}
MDI may refer to:
A microlith is a small stone tool usually made of flint or chert and typically a centimetre or so in length and half a centimetre wide. They were made by people from 35,000 years ago to about 3,000 years ago, in Europe, north Africa, across Asia and in Australia, and used in spear points and arrowheads.
The menorah (;  ) is described in the Bible as the seven-lamp (six branches) ancient Hebrew lampstand made of pure gold and used in the portable sanctuary set up by Moses in the wilderness and later in the Temple in Jerusalem. Fresh olive oil of the purest quality was burned daily to light its lamps.
thumb|right|180px|The mouse gesture for &quot;back&quot; in [[Opera (web browser)|Opera – the user holds down the right mouse button, moves the mouse left, and releases the right mouse button.]]
Maglev is a form of rail transport using magnetic levitation.
A monorail is a railway in which the track consists of a single rail. The term is also used to describe the beam of the system, or the vehicles traveling on such a beam or track.
}}
Mustafa Altıoklar (born 1958, Ankara) is a Turkish film director, producer and screenwriter.
right|thumb|Major scales
In music theory, minor scale may refer to:
}}
}}
thumb|300px|right|Mercator 1569 world map () showing latitudes 66°S to 80°N. For higher resolution and coloured images see [[Mercator 1569 world map.
}}
Midas (; ) is the name of at least three members of the royal house of Phrygia.
Misandry () is the hatred of, contempt for, or prejudice against men or boys.&quot;Misandry&quot; at Oxford English Dictionary Online (ODO), Third Edition, June 2002.
In abstract algebra, a monoid ring is a ring constructed from a ring and a monoid, just as a group ring is constructed from a ring and a group.
The magic lantern, also known by its Latin name lanterna magica, is an early type of image projector employing pictures on sheets of glass (originally painted, but later also printed or as photographic plates), a lens, and a bright light source. It was mostly developed in the 17th century and commonly used for entertainment purposes.
Mary of Bethany (Judeo-Aramaic מרים, Maryām, rendered Μαρία, Maria, in the Koine Greek of the New Testament; form of Hebrew מִרְיָם, Miryām, or Miriam, &quot;wished for child&quot;, &quot;bitter&quot; or &quot;rebellious&quot;) is a biblical figure described in the Gospels of John and Luke in the Christian New Testament.  Together with her siblings Lazarus and Martha, she is described by John as living in the village of Bethany near Jerusalem; in Luke only the two sisters, living in an unnamed village, are mentioned.
Paul the Apostle's Epistle to the Romans (16:6) mentions a Mary. She is said to have treated Paul with special kindness, and to have &quot;laboured much among&quot; the early Christian community.
Mary, mother of John Mark is mentioned in the , which says that, after his escape from prison, Peter went to her house:
MSIL can mean:Mssmawi
X
MMIX (pronounced em-mix) is a 64-bit RISC architecture designed by Donald Knuth, with significant contributions by John L. Hennessy (who contributed to the design of the MIPS architecture) and Richard L.
Treaty on European Union
In western music, a motet is a mainly vocal musical composition, of highly varied form and style, from the late medieval era to the present. The motet was one of the pre-eminent polyphonic forms of Renaissance music.
Madrigal is a European musical form of the 1500s and 1600s.
Merlin () is a legendary figure best known as the wizard featured in Arthurian legend and medieval Welsh poetry. The standard depiction of the character first appears in Geoffrey of Monmouth's Historia Regum Britanniae, written c.
A merchant is a person who trades in commodities produced by other people to earn a profit. A merchant historically was anyone who was involved in business as long as industry, commerce, and trade have existed.
A Mentat is a fictional type of human, presented in Frank Herbert's science fiction Dune universe. In an interstellar society that fears a resurgence of artificial intelligence and thus prohibits computers, Mentats are specially trained to mimic the cognitive and analytical ability of electronic computers.
Mayerling is a small village (pop: 200) in Lower Austria belonging to the municipality of Alland in the district of Baden. It is situated on the Schwechat River, in the Wienerwald (Vienna woods), 15 miles (24 km) southwest of Vienna.
A musical keyboard is the set of adjacent depressible levers or keys on a musical instrument. Keyboards typically contain keys for playing the twelve notes of the Western musical scale, with a combination of larger, longer keys and smaller, shorter keys that repeats at the interval of an octave.
In music, there are two common meanings for tuning:
Musical  may refer to:
The Miller–Urey experiment (or Miller experiment) was a chemical experiment that simulated the conditions thought at the time to be present on the early Earth, and tested the chemical origin of life under those conditions. The experiment supported Alexander Oparin's and J.
In Boolean logic, the majority function (also called the median operator)  is a function from n inputs to one output. The value of the operation is false when n/2 or more arguments are false, and true otherwise.
A monolithic kernel is an operating system architecture where the entire operating system is working in kernel space and is alone in supervisor mode. The monolithic model differs from other operating system architectures (such as the microkernel architecture) in that it alone defines a high-level virtual interface over computer hardware.
Mithraism, also known as the Mithraic mysteries, was a mystery religion centred around the god Mithras that was practised in the Roman Empire from about the 1st to the 4th century CE. The religion was inspired by Persian worship of the god Mithra (proto-Indo-Iranian Mitra), though the Greek Mithras was linked to a new and distinctive imagery, and the level of continuity between Persian and Greco-Roman practice is debated.
A minivan (American English), people carrier (British English), or MPV (multi-purpose vehicle) or MUV (multi-utility vehicle) is a vehicle size classification describing a high-roof vehicle with a flexible interior layout. Smaller sizes are mini MPV and compact MPV classifications.
(Kirin Holdings Company)
A manifesto is a published verbal declaration of the intentions, motives, or views of the issuer, be it an individual, group, political party or government.Merriam-Webster online dictionary definition of Manifesto.
Menilite is a greyish-brown form of the mineraloid opal.Menilite on Mindat.
Charles Mason Remey (May 15, 1874 – February 4, 1974) was a prominent and controversial American Bahá'í who was appointed in 1951 a Hand of the Cause, and president of the International Bahá'í Council. He was the architect for the Bahá'í Houses of Worship in Uganda and Australia, and Shoghi Effendi approved his design of the unbuilt House of Worship in Haifa, Israel.
In visual arts, music, and other mediums, minimalism is a style that uses pared-down design elements.
An ignition magneto, or high tension magneto, is a magneto that provides current for the ignition system of a spark-ignition engine, such as a petrol engine. It produces pulses of high voltage for the spark plugs.
}}
Music radio is a radio format in which music is the main broadcast content. After television replaced old time radio's dramatic content, music formats became dominant in many countries.
Massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs) are a combination of role-playing video games and massively multiplayer online games in which a very large number of players interact with one another within a virtual world.
Multiplication (often denoted by the cross symbol &quot;×&quot;, by a point &quot;⋅&quot;, by juxtaposition, or, on computers, by an asterisk &quot;∗&quot;) is one of the four elementary mathematical operations of arithmetic; with the others being addition, subtraction and division.
Malt is germinated cereal grains that have been dried in a process known as &quot;malting&quot;. The grains are made to germinate by soaking in water, and are then halted from germinating further by drying with hot air.
thumb|300px|A mason laying mortar on top of a finished course of blocks, prior to placing the next course.
Mortar may refer to:
thumb|Magnetron with section removed to exhibit the cavities. The cathode in the center is not visible.
Manorialism was an essential element of feudal society.&quot;Feudal Society&quot;, in its modern sense was coined in Marc Bloch's 1939–40 books of the same name.
Metamorphosis is a biological process by which an animal physically develops after birth or hatching, involving a conspicuous and relatively abrupt change in the animal's body structure through cell growth and differentiation. Metamorphosis is iodothyronine-induced and an ancestral feature of all chordates.
thumb|[[Monoamine oxidase]]
A mother superior is an abbess, prioress or other nun in charge of a Christian religious order or congregation, a convent or house of women under vows.
Mycology is the branch of biology concerned with the study of fungi, including their genetic and biochemical properties, their taxonomy and their use to humans  as a source for tinder, medicine, food, and entheogens, as well as their dangers, such as toxicity or infection.
Melancholia (from , ),Burton, Bk. I, p.
Martini may refer to:
A Manhattan is a cocktail made with whiskey, sweet vermouth, and bitters. Commonly used whiskeys include rye (the traditional choice), Canadian whisky, bourbon, blended whiskey, and Tennessee whiskey.
MV Virginian (T-AK 9205), formerly named the MV Strong Virginian (T-AKR-9205), is a combination container, heavy lift, and roll-on/roll-off ship.Military Sealift Command, 2008, MV VIRGINIAN (T-AK 9205).
Mon or MON may refer to:
Mojito (; ) is a traditional Cuban highball.
}}
味噌}} is a traditional Japanese seasoning produced by fermenting soybeans with salt and koji (the fungus Aspergillus oryzae) and sometimes rice, barley, or other ingredients. The result is a thick paste used for sauces and spreads, pickling vegetables or meats, and mixing with dashi soup stock to serve as miso soup called , a Japanese culinary staple.
__NOTOC__
In computer networking, the maximum transmission unit (MTU)  is the size of the largest network layer protocol data unit that can be communicated in a single network transaction.RFC 791 p.
MV Buffalo Soldier (T-AK-9301) is a roll-on/roll-off ship, formerly of the French Government Line (now merged into CMA CGM). She was sold and reflagged US, renamed to honor Buffalo Soldiers, and chartered by the United States Navy Military Sealift Command as a Maritime Prepositioning ship serving at Diego Garcia laden with U.
Strategic sealift ships are part of the United States Military Sealift Command's (MSC) prepositioning program. There are currently 49 ships in the program, strategically positioned around the globe to support the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps and Defense Logistics Agency.
Malware, short for malicious software, is an umbrella term used to refer to a variety of forms of hostile or intrusive software, including computer viruses, worms, Trojan horses, ransomware, spyware, adware, scareware, and other malicious programs.  It can take the form of executable code, scripts, active content, and other software.
Mole Day is an unofficial holiday celebrated among chemists, chemistry students and chemistry enthusiasts on October 23, between 6:02 AM and 6:02 PM,
* speed metal}}
MMU may refer to:
The multiverse (or meta-universe) is the hypothetical set of possible universes, including the universe in which we live. Together, these universes comprise everything that exists: the entirety of space, time, matter, energy, and the physical laws and constants that describe them.
MBR may refer to:
Milton may refer to:
The area known as the &quot;Near East&quot; is usually referred to as Middle East in modern contexts.
A Molotov cocktail ( or Molotovin koktaili), also known as a petrol bomb, bottle bomb, poor man's grenade, fire bomb (not to be confused with an actual fire bomb) or just Molotov, is a generic name used for a variety of bottle-based  improvised incendiary weapons. Due to the relative ease of production, Molotov cocktails have been used by street criminals, protesters, rioters, gangsters, urban guerrillas, terrorists, irregular soldiers, or even regular soldiers short on equivalent military-issue weapons.
Matzo, matza or matzah ( matsah,  matsa; plural matzot; matzos of Ashkenazi Hebrew dialect) is an unleavened flatbread that is part of Jewish cuisine and forms an integral element of the Passover festival, during which chametz (leaven and five grains that, per Jewish Law, can be leavened) is forbidden.
Michel Tremblay, CQ (born 25 June 1942) is a French Canadian novelist and playwright.
Supervised learning is the machine learning task of inferring a function from .Mehryar Mohri, Afshin Rostamizadeh, Ameet Talwalkar (2012) Foundations of Machine Learning, The MIT Press .
Martin Helwig () (5 November 1516 – 26 January 1574) was a German cartographer of and from Silesia and
}}
In biochemistry, a metabolic pathway is a linked series of chemical reactions occurring within a cell.  The reactants, products, and intermediates of an enzymatic reaction are known as metabolites, which are modified by a sequence of chemical reactions catalyzed by enzymes.
thumb|300px|A chart of estimated annual growth rates in world population, 1800–2005. Rates before 1950 are annualized historical estimates from the US Census Bureau.
Millennialism (from millennium, Latin for &quot;a thousand years&quot;), or chiliasm (from the Greek), is a belief advanced by some Christian denominations that a Golden Age or Paradise will occur on Earth in which &quot;Christ will reign&quot; for 1000 years prior to the final judgment and future eternal state (the &quot;World to Come&quot; of the New Heavens and New Earth). This belief derives primarily from .
Might and Magic is a series of role-playing video games from New World Computing, which in 1996 became a subsidiary of The 3DO Company. The producer of the series was Jon Van Caneghem.
Brainwashing (also known as mind control,  menticide, coercive persuasion,  thought control, thought reform, and re-education) is the non-scientific concept that the human mind can be altered or controlled by certain psychological techniques. Brainwashing is said to reduce its subject’s ability to think critically or independently,Encyclopaedic Dictionary of Religion, Volume 2, Gyan Publishing House, 2005 to allow the introduction of new, unwanted thoughts and ideas into the subject’s mind,Campbell's Psychiatric Dictionary, Robert Jean Campbell, Oxford University Press, USA, 2004, page 403 as well as to change their attitudes, values, and beliefs.
.
Madness may refer to:
(Medieval Latin for &quot;the Great Charter of the Liberties&quot;), commonly called  (also Magna Charta; &quot;(the) Great Charter&quot;),
Milieu is a social environment.
The classical Möbius function  is an important multiplicative function in number theory and combinatorics. The German mathematician August Ferdinand Möbius introduced it in 1832.
In mathematics, the classic Möbius inversion formula was introduced into number theory during the 19th century by August Ferdinand Möbius.
}}
Marxism–Leninism is the political ideology adopted by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and Comintern,History for the IB Diploma: Communism in Crisis 1976–89. Allan Todd.
Modulo may refer to:
A Meritorious Service Medal is an award presented to denote acts of meritorious service, and sometimes gallantry, that are worthy of recognition. Notable medals in this family are:
The Marvel Universe is the shared universe where the stories in most American comic book titles and other media published by Marvel Entertainment take place. Super-teams such as the Avengers, the Fantastic Four, the X-Men, the Guardians of the Galaxy, the Defenders and other Marvel superheroes live in this universe, including characters such as Spider-Man, The Hulk, and numerous others.
}}
McLaren-Honda
Monti may refer to:
The following list of marine aquarium fish species commonly available in the aquarium trade is not a completely comprehensive list; certain rare specimens may available commercially yet not be listed here. A brief section on each, with a link to the page about the particular species is provided along with references for further information.
A magazine is a publication, usually a periodical publication, which is printed or electronically published (sometimes referred to as an online magazine). Magazines are generally published on a regular schedule and contain a variety of content.
A multivibrator is an electronic circuit used to implement a variety of simple two-state devices such as relaxation oscillators, timers and flip-flops. It consists of two amplifying devices (transistors, vacuum tubes or other devices) cross-coupled by resistors or capacitors.
Marsh gas, swamp gas and  bog gas are common names for biogas which forms in wetlands, whose principal component is methane with hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide as minor compositions, produced naturally within some geographical marshes, swamps, and bogs.
thumbnail|Two ATmega microcontrollers
Mormonism is the predominant religious tradition of the Latter Day Saint movement of Restorationist Christianity. Joseph Smith founded the movement in Western New York in the 1820s.
This page contains a list of military tactics.
}}
A Molokan (, &quot;milk-drinker&quot;) is a member of various Spiritual Christian sects that evolved from Eastern Christianity in the East Slavic lands. Their traditions—especially dairy consumption during Christian fasts—did not conform to those of the Russian Orthodox Church, and they were regarded as neither Eastern Orthodox, nor Catholic, nor Protestant..
Musical chairs is a game of elimination involving players, chairs, and music, with one fewer chair than players.  When the music stops whichever player fails to sit on a chair is eliminated, with a chair then being removed and the process repeated until only one player remains.
Mohism or Moism (aka. Mohist School of Logic) () was an ancient Chinese philosophy of logic, rational thought and science developed by the academic scholars who studied under the ancient Chinese philosopher Mozi (c.
Mafic is an adjective describing a silicate mineral or igneous rock that is rich in magnesium and iron, and is thus a portmanteau of magnesium and ferric.Schlumberger: Oilfield Glossary Most mafic minerals are dark in color, and common rock-forming mafic minerals include olivine, pyroxene, amphibole, and biotite.
A military ordinariate is an ecclesiastical jurisdiction of the Roman Catholic Church, of the Latin or an Eastern Church, responsible for the pastoral care of Catholics serving in the armed forces of a nation.
Mario Berlinguer () (Sassari, August 29, 1891 – Rome, September 5, 1969) was an Italian lawyer and politician. He descended from a noble Sardinian family.
Michele Columbu (8 February 1914 – 10 July 2012Obituary) was an Italian politician and writer from Ollolai, Sardinia.
}}
thumb|right|A motel in [[Bjerka, Norway]]
In the philosophy of mathematics, constructivism asserts that it is necessary to find (or &quot;construct&quot;) a mathematical object to prove that it exists. In standard mathematics, one can prove the existence of a mathematical object without &quot;finding&quot; that object explicitly, by assuming its non-existence and then deriving a contradiction from that assumption.
The mica group of sheet silicate (phyllosilicate) minerals includes several closely related materials having nearly perfect basal cleavage. All are monoclinic, with a tendency towards pseudohexagonal crystals, and are similar in chemical composition.
Muscovite (also known as common mica, isinglass, or potash micaEncyclopædia Britannica) is a hydrated phyllosilicate mineral of aluminium and potassium with formula KAl2(AlSi3O10)(F,OH)2, or (KF)2(Al2O3)3(SiO2)6(H2O). It has a highly perfect basal cleavage yielding remarkably thin laminae (sheets) which are often highly elastic.
The Book of Mosiah ( or LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «mō-sī´a or mō-zī´a»)  is one of the books which make up the Book of Mormon.
thumb|[[Bern Switzerland Temple statue of Angel Moroni]]
}}
Mobilian Jargon (also Mobilian trade language, Mobilian Trade Jargon, Chickasaw–Choctaw trade language, Yamá) was a pidgin used as a lingua franca among Native American groups living along the Gulf of Mexico around the time of European settlement of the region.   It was the main language among Indian tribes in this area, mainly Louisiana.
NupeCode is free/open source software (released under the GNU General Public License) designed for large peer review projects. The code was available via Nupedia's CVS repository.
The following is a list of drivers who are currently competing in a series sanctioned by the National Association for Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR).
A neuron (  or  , also known as a neurone &quot;a nerve cell&quot;; &quot;by the late 20th century the term neuron was commoner [than neurone] ... and standard in scientific usage&quot; or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals.
A Usenet newsgroup is a [usually within the Usenet] system, for messages [[Posting style|posted from many users in different locations using Internet. Despite the name, newsgroups are discussion groups, and are not devoted to publishing news, but were when the internet was young.
New York City is the most populous city in the United States of America.
New Yorker may refer to:
Numerology is any belief in the divine, mystical relationship between a number and one or more coinciding events. It is also the study of the numerical value of the letters in words, names and ideas.
}}
The noble gases (historically also the inert gases) make up a group of chemical elements with similar properties; under standard conditions, they are all odorless, colorless, monatomic gases with very low chemical reactivity. The six noble gases that occur naturally are helium (He), neon (Ne), argon (Ar), krypton (Kr), xenon (Xe), and the radioactive radon (Rn).
A natural monopoly is a monopoly in an industry in which high infrastructural costs and other barriers to entry relative to the size of the market give the largest supplier in an industry, often the first supplier in a market, an overwhelming advantage over potential competitors. This frequently occurs in industries where capital costs predominate, creating economies of scale that are large in relation to the size of the market; examples include public utilities such as water services and electricity.
Natural selection is the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype. It is a key mechanism of evolution, the change in heritable traits of a population over time.
}}
In computing, a nibble (often nybble or nyble to match the spelling of byte) is a four-bit aggregation, or half an octet. It is also known as half-byte or tetrade.
New Wave}}
Communications in the Netherlands.
thumb|270px|Traffic in the Netherlands
The Armed forces of the Netherlands consist of the Army, Navy, and Air Force.
The foreign policy of the Netherlands is based on four basic commitments: to the Atlantic cooperation, to European integration, to international development and to international law . While historically the Netherlands was a neutral state, since the second World War it became a member of a large number of international organisations.
The drug policy of the Netherlands officially has four major objectives:
This article lists some of the events that took place in the Netherlands in 2001.
A numeral system (or system of numeration) is a writing system for expressing numbers; that is, a mathematical notation for representing numbers of a given set, using digits or other symbols in a consistent manner. It can be seen as the context that allows the symbols &quot;11&quot; to be interpreted as the binary symbol for three, the decimal symbol for eleven, or a symbol for other numbers in different bases.
In neuropsychology, linguistics and the philosophy of language, a natural language or ordinary language is any language that has evolved naturally in humans through use and repetition without conscious planning or premeditation. Natural languages can take different forms, such as speech or signing.
Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. It was first discovered and isolated by Scottish physician Daniel Rutherford in 1772.
In metaphysics, nominalism is a philosophical view which denies the existence of universals and abstract objects, but affirms the existence of general or abstract terms and predicates.Mill (1872); Bigelow (1998).
Non-cognitivism is the meta-ethical view that ethical sentences do not express propositions (i.e.
* (French)
Northwest}}
Nez Perce}}
The Neolithic  Age, Era, or Period, or New Stone Age, was a period in the development of human technology, beginning about 15,200 BC, according to the ASPRO chronology, in some parts of the Middle East, and later in other parts of the world and ending between 4500 and 2000 BC.
Gnomic}}
Late Atdabanian-Pridoli
The Northwest Passage  (abbreviated as NWP) is, from the European and northern Atlantic point of view, the sea route to the Pacific Ocean through the Arctic Ocean, along the northern coast of North America via waterways through the Canadian Arctic Archipelago. The eastern route along the Artic coasts of Norway and Siberia is accordingly called Northeast Passage (NEP).
2010 Census BureauOne race: 2,932,248 are registeredIn combination with one or more of the other races listed: 2,288,331Total: 5,220,579
PlayStation 2Microsoft WindowsPlayStation 3Xbox 360
Negligence per se is a doctrine within the law of United States of America whereby an act is considered negligent because it violates a statute (or regulation).
Napoleon (1769–1821) also known as Napoleon Bonaparte or Napoleon I, was a French military leader and emperor.
Neurology (from , neuron, and the suffix
Nu or NU may refer to:
New England is a region of the north-eastern United States, comprising the states of Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, and Vermont.
)
Neuroscience (or neurobiology) is the scientific study of the nervous system. It is a multidisciplinary branch of biology, that deals with the anatomy, biochemistry, molecular biology, and physiology of neurons and neural circuits.
Chosŏn Minjujuŭi Inmin Konghwaguk
The history of North Korea began with the partition of Korea at the end of World War II in 1945, and the creation of the Communist-aligned Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) headed by the former guerrilla leader, Kim Il-sung. In 1950 the Korean War broke out.
North Korea is located in east Asia on the northern half of the Korean Peninsula.
The politics of North Korea takes place within the framework of the official state philosophy, Juche, a concept created by Hwang Jang-yop and later attributed to Kim Il-sung. The Juche theory is the belief that through self-reliance and a strong independent state, true socialism can be achieved.
Communications in North Korea refers to the communication services available in North Korea. North Korea has not fully adopted mainstream Internet technology due to its isolationist policies.
Transport in North Korea is constrained by economic problems and government restrictions. Public transport predominates, and most of it is electrified.
}}  }}
The foreign relations of North Korea – officially the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) – have been shaped by its conflict with capitalist countries like South Korea and its historical ties with world communism. Both the government of the DPRK and the government of South Korea (officially the Republic of Korea) claim to be the government of the whole of Korea.
}}
Nasir al-Din}}
, ,
Neon is a chemical element with symbol Ne and atomic number 10. It is a noble gas.
Nickel is a chemical element with symbol Ni and atomic number 28. It is a silvery-white lustrous metal with a slight golden tinge.
Niobium, formerly columbium, is a chemical element with symbol Nb (formerly Cb) and atomic number 41. It is a soft, grey, ductile transition metal, which is often found in the pyrochlore mineral, the main commercial source for niobium, and columbite.
Neodymium is a chemical element with symbol Nd and atomic number 60. It is a soft silvery metal that tarnishes in air.
Neptunium is a chemical element with symbol Np and atomic number 93. A radioactive actinide metal, neptunium is the first transuranic element.
Nobelium is a synthetic chemical element with symbol No and atomic number 102. It is named in honor of Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite and benefactor of science.
NMD may refer to:
Nuclear physics is the field of physics that studies atomic nuclei and their constituents and interactions. Other forms of nuclear matter are also studied.
Nicholas Berthelot Lemann is the Joseph Pulitzer II and Edith Pulitzer Moore Professor of Journalism and Dean Emeritus of the Faculty of Journalism at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism. He has been a staff writer at The New Yorker since 1999.
N (named en &quot;N&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;en,&quot; op. cit.
In woodworking and construction, a nail is a pin-shaped object of metal (or wood, called a treenail or &quot;trunnel&quot;) which is used as a fastener, as a peg to hang something, or sometimes as a decoration.Oxford English Dictionary Second Edition on CD-ROM (v.
thumb|Detailed map of Namibia based on the radar map shown below
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Namibia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Namibia takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Namibia is both head of state and head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by both the President and the Government.
Telecommunications in Namibia include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article deals with the system of transport in Namibia, both public and private.
)}}
Namibia follows a largely independent foreign policy, with strong affiliations with states that aided the independence struggle, including Libya and Cuba.
(Nauruan)
The history of human activity in Nauru, an island country in the Pacific Ocean, began roughly 3,000 years ago when 12 Micronesian and Polynesian clans settled the island.
11)
Politics of Nauru takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Nauru is the head of government of the executive branch. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the parliament.
The economy of Nauru is tiny, based on a population in 2014 of only 11,000 people. The economy is primarily based on phosphate mining, offshore banking, and processing of coconut products.
Nauru has one government-owned radio station and two television stations. One station is government-owned and mainly rebroadcasts CNN and the other is a private sports network.
Transportation in Nauru includes pedestrian, bicycle, automobile, train, and airplane.
The history of Nepal has been influenced by its position in the Himalaya and its two neighbours, modern day India and Tibet.
In the 2011 census, Nepal's population was approximately 26 million people with a population growth rate of 1.35% and a median age of 21.
The politics of Nepal function within a framework of a republic with a multi-party system.
thumb|right|300px|[[Mahabir Pun hand-making a satellite dish in Nepal]]
}}
The Federal Democratic Republic of Nepal has traditionally maintained a non-aligned policy and enjoys friendly relations with neighboring countries. As a landlocked country wedged between two larger and far stronger powers, Nepal maintains good relations with People's Republic of China.
The Netherlands Antilles was a constituent country in the Caribbean Sea.  It consisted of two island groups, the ABC islands Curaçao, Bonaire and (until 1986) Aruba just north of Venezuela, and the SSS islands east of the Virgin Islands.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the former Netherlands Antilles, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The Netherlands Antilles was an autonomous Caribbean country within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which was formally dissolved in 2010.
}}
This article lists forms of Transport in the Netherlands Antilles.
Demographics of New Caledonia.
New Caledonia is a French sui generis collectivity with a system of government based on parliamentarism and representative democracy. The President of the Government is the head of government, and there is a  multi-party system, with Executive power being exercised by the government.
$11.1 billion (2014 est.
}}
This article is about the transport in New Caledonia.
New Zealand (Aotearoa) is an island nation located in the south-western Pacific Ocean, near the centre of the water hemisphere. The country encompasses two major islands—the North Island (or Te Ika-a-Māui), and the South Island (or Te Waipounamu)—that are separated by the Cook Strait; a third, less substantial island, Stewart Island (or Rakiura), is located  off the tip of the South Island across Foveaux Strait.
The politics of New Zealand function within a framework of a unitary parliamentary representative democracy. New Zealand is a constitutional monarchy in which a hereditary monarch—since 6 February 1952, Queen Elizabeth II—is the sovereign and head of state.
Telecommunications in New Zealand are fairly typical for an industrialised country.
Transport in New Zealand, with its mountainous topography and a relatively small population mostly located near its long coastline, has always faced many challenges. Before Europeans arrived, Māori either walked or used watercraft on rivers or along the coasts.
The foreign relations of New Zealand are oriented chiefly toward developed democratic nations and emerging Pacific economies. The country’s major political parties have generally agreed on the broad outlines of foreign policy, and the current coalition government has been active in promoting free trade, nuclear disarmament, and arms control.
Nicaragua is the third least densely populated nation in Central America, with a demographic similar in size to its smaller neighbors. It is located about midway between Mexico and Colombia, bordered by Honduras to the north and Costa Rica to the south.
thumb|right|300px|Land use map of Nicaragua, 1979
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Nicaragua, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Nicaragua is a presidential representative democratic republic, in which the President of Nicaragua is both head of state and head of government, and there is a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$19.89 billion (2012 est.
Telecommunications in Nicaragua include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Nicaragua revolves around road and sea transport modalities.
Nicaragua pursues an independent foreign policy. A participant of the Central American Security Commission (CSC), Nicaragua also has taken a leading role in pressing for regional demilitarization and peaceful settlement of disputes within states in the region.
}}
thumb|right|300px|Modern Niger.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Niger, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Niger takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Niger is head of state and the Prime Minister of Niger head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
= 655.957 XOF
Telecommunications in Niger include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
thumb|right|A state-run [[Sociéte Nigerienne de Transports de Voyageurs|SNTV coach running between Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso) and Niamey, Niger. Road transport is the major form of travel across the huge distances between Nigerien population centers, though most Nigeriens do not own vehicles.
Niger pursues a moderate foreign policy and maintains friendly relations with both East and West. It belongs to the United Nations.
The history of Nigeria  can be traced to prehistoric settlers living in the area as early as 11000 BC. Numerous ancient African civilizations settled in the region that is today Nigeria, such as the Benin Empire, the Kingdom of Nri and the Oyo Empire.
Nigeria is a country in West Africa. Nigeria shares land borders with the Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Nigeria, including population density, ethnicity, vital statistics, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other demographic aspects of the population.
}}$1,105.343 billion (PPP; 2016)
Telecommunications in Nigeria include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
thumb|right|Map of Nigeria (source: [[CIA's The World Factbook)]]
border
Since independence, with Jaja Wachuku as the first Minister of Foreign Affairs and Commonwealth Relations, later called External Affairs, Nigerian foreign policy has been characterised by a focus on Africa as a regional power and by attachment to several fundamental principles: African unity and independence; capability to exercise hegemonic influence in the region: peaceful settlement of disputes; non-alignment and non-intentional interference in the internal affairs of other nations; and regional economic cooperation and development. In carrying out these principles, Nigeria participates in the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), the Non-Aligned Movement, the Commonwealth of Nations, and the United Nations.
Niue was first settled by Polynesian sailors from Samoa in around 900 AD. Further settlers (or invaders) arrived from Tonga in the 16th century.
thumb|Avatele, Niue
Politics of Niue takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Chief Minister is the head of government, and of a non-partisan system. Niue is self-governing in free association with New Zealand and is fully responsible for internal affairs.
Transport in Niue takes place on a road network, and via an (international) airport and a sea port.
Communications in Niue include postal, telephone, internet, press and radio.
thumb|Map of the Northern Mariana Islands.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Northern Mariana Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Northern Mariana Islands takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic system, whereby the Governor is head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. The Northern Mariana Islands are a commonwealth in political union with the United States.
The history of Norfolk Island dates back to the fourteenth or fifteenth century when it was settled by Polynesian seafarers.
Politics of Norfolk Island takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic entity. Norfolk Island is the only non-mainland Australian territory to have achieved self-governance.
The New Testament (Koine Greek: Ἡ Καινὴ Διαθήκη, Hē Kainḕ Diathḗkē; ) is the second part of the Christian biblical canon, the first part being the Old Testament, based on the Hebrew Bible. The New Testament discusses the teachings and person of Jesus, as well as events in first-century Christianity.
A nerve is an enclosed, cable-like bundle of axons (nerve fibers, the long and slender projections of neurons) in the peripheral nervous system. A nerve provides a common pathway for the electrochemical nerve impulses that are transmitted along each of the axons to peripheral organs.
Negligence (Lat. negligentia) is a failure to exercise the appropriate and or ethical ruled care expected to be exercised amongst specified circumstances.
The Niger River ( ; , ) is the principal river of western Africa, extending about .  Its drainage basin is  in area.
In the philosophy of mind, neutral monism is the view that the mental and the physical are two ways of organizing or describing the same elements, which are themselves &quot;neutral&quot;, that is, neither physical nor mental.Craig, Edward.
The Necronomicon is a fictional grimoire (textbook of magic) appearing in the stories by horror writer H. P.
November is the eleventh and penultimate month of the year in the Julian and Gregorian Calendars and the fourth and last month to have the length of 30 days.  November was the ninth month of the ancient Roman calendar.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
The Rolf Nevanlinna Prize (named in honor of Rolf Nevanlinna) is awarded once every 4 years at the International Congress of Mathematicians, for outstanding contributions in Mathematical Aspects of Information Sciences including:
==Events==
==Events==
\, e^{-\frac{(x - \mu)^2}{2 \sigma^2}}
Most nation-states have anthems, defined as &quot;a song, as of praise, devotion, or patriotism&quot;; most anthems are either marches or hymns in style. A hymn can become a national anthem by a provision in the state's constitution, by a law enacted by its legislature, or simply by tradition.
In mathematics, the natural numbers are those used for counting (as in &quot;there are six coins on the table&quot;) and ordering (as in &quot;this is the third largest city in the country&quot;).  In common language, words used for counting are &quot;cardinal numbers&quot; and words used for ordering are &quot;ordinal numbers&quot;.
The natural logarithm of a number is its logarithm to the base of the mathematical constant e, where e is an irrational and transcendental number approximately equal to . The natural logarithm of x is generally written as , ,  or sometimes, if the base e is implicit, simply .
The Neogene () is a geologic period and system that spans 20.45 million years from the end of the Paleogene Period  million years ago (Mya) to the beginning of the present Quaternary Period  Mya.
A notary public (or notary or public notary) of the common law is a public officer constituted by law to serve the public in non-contentious matters usually concerned with estates, deeds, powers-of-attorney, and foreign and international business. A notary's main functions are to administer oaths and affirmations, take affidavits and statutory declarations, witness and authenticate the execution of certain classes of documents, take acknowledgments of deeds and other conveyances, protest notes and bills of exchange, provide notice of foreign drafts, prepare marine or ship's protests in cases of damage, provide exemplifications and notarial copies, and perform certain other official acts depending on the jurisdiction.
In linguistics, a numeral is a member of a word class (or sometimes even a part of speech) designating numbers, such as the English word 'two' and the compound 'seventy-seven'.Charles Follen: A Practical Grammar of the German Language.
(Electron neutrino): Wolfgang Pauli (1930) (Muon neutrino): Late 1940s
Nanotechnology (&quot;nanotech&quot;) is  manipulation of matter on an atomic, molecular, and supramolecular scale. The earliest, widespread description of nanotechnology  referred to the particular technological goal of precisely manipulating atoms and molecules for fabrication of macroscale products, also now referred to as molecular nanotechnology.
Nylon is a generic designation for a family of synthetic polymers, based on aliphatic or semi-aromatic polyamides.
Nucleus (pl: nuclei) is a Latin word for the seed inside a fruit. It may refer to:
A nerd is a person seen as overly intellectual, obsessive, or lacking social skills. Such a person may spend inordinate amounts of time on unpopular, little known, or non-mainstream activities, which are generally either highly technical, abstract, or relating to topics of fiction or fantasy, to the exclusion of more mainstream activities.
Nucleic acids are biopolymers, or large biomolecules, essential to all known forms of life. They are composed of monomers, which are nucleotides made of three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base.
Nike may refer to:
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomer units for forming the nucleic acid polymers deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA), both of which are essential biomolecules in all life-forms on Earth. Nucleotides are the building blocks of nucleic acids; they are composed of three subunit molecules: a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group.
thumb|250px|right|Babylonian clay tablet [[Yale Babylonian Collection|YBC 7289 (c. 1800–1600 BC) with annotations.
The noosphere (; sometimes noösphere) is the sphere of human thought.Georgy S.
Niccolò (or Nicolò) Paganini (; 27 October 178227 May 1840) was an Italian violinist, violist, guitarist, and composer. He was the most celebrated violin virtuoso of his time, and left his mark as one of the pillars of modern violin technique.
The North Atlantic Current (NAC), also known as North Atlantic Drift and North Atlantic Sea Movement, is a powerful warm western boundary current that extends the Gulf Stream north-eastward.
North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW) is a deep water mass formed in the North Atlantic Ocean.  Thermohaline circulation of the world's oceans involves the flow of warm surface waters from the southern hemisphere into the North Atlantic.
Nanomedicine is the medical application of nanotechnology.Nanomedicine, Volume I: Basic Capabilities, by Robert A.
NMR may refer to:
In set theory, a null set N \subset \mathbb{R} is a set that can be covered by a countable union of intervals of arbitrarily small total length. The notion of null set in set theory anticipates the development of Lebesgue measure since a null set necessarily has measure zero.
==Events==
Artificial neural networks (ANNs) or connectionist systems are computing systems inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains. Such systems learn (progressively improve performance) to do tasks by considering examples, generally without task-specific programming.
right|300px|thumb|The &quot;Nutrition Facts&quot; table displayed on packaged food labels in the United States indicates the amounts of [[nutrients recommended by the US Food and Drug Administration to limit or consume according to the Daily Value]]
In the ancient astronomy, it is the cusp day between Scorpio and Sagittarius. In some years it is Sagittarius, but others Scorpio.
thumb|A [[Lehmer sieve, which is a primitive digital computer once used for finding primes and solving simple Diophantine equations.]]
A navy or maritime force is a fleet of waterborne military vessels (watercraft) and its associated naval aviation, both sea-based and land-based. It is the branch of a nation's armed forces principally designated for naval and amphibious warfare; namely, lake-borne, riverine, littoral, or ocean-borne combat operations and related functions.
In mathematics, a normed vector space is a vector space on which a norm is defined. In a vector space with 1- 2- or 3-dimensional vectors with real-valued entries, the idea of the &quot;length&quot; of a vector is intuitive.
The Nicene Creed (Greek:  or, , Latin: ) is a Symbol of faith widely used in Christian liturgy. It is called Nicene  because it was originally adopted in the city of Nicaea (present day İznik, Turkey) by the First Council of Nicaea in 325.
In nuclear physics, nuclear fusion is a reaction in which two or more atomic nuclei come close enough to form one or more different atomic nuclei and subatomic particles (neutrons or protons). The difference in mass between the products and reactants is manifested as the release of large amounts of energy.
Also note that, as of August 28, 2009 (and likely before), the website title is &quot;National Geographic – Inspiring People to Care About the Planet&quot;.
The Norns (Old Norse: norn, plural: nornir) in Norse mythologyThe article Dis in Nordisk familjebok (1907). are female beings who rule the destiny of gods and men.
Niflheim (or Niflheimr) (&quot;Mist Home&quot;, the &quot;Abode of Mist&quot; or &quot;Mist World&quot; , or probably world of the darkness according to the Oxford English Dictionary) is one of the Nine Worlds and is a location in Norse mythology which sometimes overlaps with the notions of Niflhel and Hel. The name Niflheimr only appears in two extant sources: Gylfaginning and the much-debated Hrafnagaldr Óðins.
Nanna may refer to:
Nanoengineering is the practice of engineering on the nanoscale. It derives its name from the nanometre, a unit of measurement equalling one billionth of a meter.
NP ?}}
==Events==
}}
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Nicolaus von Amsdorf (German: Nikolaus von Amsdorf, 3 December 1483 – 14 May 1565) was a German Lutheran theologian and reformer.
Nationality is a legal relationship between an individual person and a state.  Nationality affords the state jurisdiction over the person and affords the person the protection of the state.
thumb|280px|Nereus in a frieze of the [[Pergamon Altar (Berlin).]]
In Greek mythology, the Nereids ( ;  Nereides, sg.  Nereis) are sea nymphs (female spirits of sea waters), the 50 daughters of Nereus and Doris, sister to Nerites.
Nemesis often refers to:
or
(Cook Islands 1,000, Fiji 5,000, New Zealand 135,000, Papua New Guinea 10,000, Samoa 2,000, England 75,000, Scotland 1,800, Australia 330,000, Hong Kong 1,200,). No current numbers are available for Vanuatu, Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotha, Malawi, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Gibraltar, Malta, Northern Ireland, Ireland, Wales, Switzerland, China, India, Malaysia, Republic of the Maldives, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Argentina, Antigua &amp; Barbuda, Barbados, Bermuda, Canada, Cayman Islands, Grenada, Jamaica, Trinidad &amp; Tobago, St.
right|thumb|300px|Njörd's desire of the Sea (1908) by [[W. G.
Neutral and neutrality may mean the following, as the root is from the Latin neuter, translating to &quot;neither one, nor the other&quot;.
The Niger–Congo languages constitute one of the world's major language families, and Africa's largest in terms of geographical area, number of speakers and number of distinct languages.Irene Thompson, “Niger-Congo Language Family”, ”aboutworldlanguages”, March 2015 It is generally considered to constitute the world's largest language family in terms of distinct languages, although this is complicated by the ambiguity about what constitutes a distinct language.
Nine-ball (sometimes written 9-ball) is a contemporary form of pool (pocket billiards), with historical beginnings rooted in the United States and traceable to the 1920s. The game may be played in social and recreational settings by any number of players (generally one-on-one) and subject to whatever rules are agreed upon beforehand, or in league and tournament settings in which the number of players and the rules are set by the sponsors.
New World Order, new world order or The New World Order may refer to:
This is a list of companies which use multi-level marketing (also known as network marketing, direct selling, referral marketing, and pyramid selling) for most of their sales.
A nation state is a type of state that joins the political entity of a state to the cultural entity of a nation, from which it aims to derive its political legitimacy to rule and potentially its status as a sovereign state.Such a definition is a working one: &quot;All attempts to develop terminological consensus around &quot;nation&quot; resulted in failure&quot;, concludes .
==Events==
Neoclassical economics is an approach to economics focusing on the determination of goods, outputs, and income distributions in markets through supply and demand. This determination is often mediated through a hypothesized maximization of utility by income-constrained individuals and of profits by firms facing production costs and employing available information and factors of production, in accordance with rational choice theory.
New Year is the time at which a new calendar year begins and the calendar's year count  increments by one.
Low-alcohol beer (also called light beer, non-alcoholic beer, small beer, small ale, or near-beer) is beer with low alcohol content or no alcohol, which aims to reproduce the taste of beer without the inebriating effects of standard alcoholic brews. Most low-alcohol beers are lagers, but there are some low-alcohol ales.
The National Cartoonists Society (NCS) is an organization of professional cartoonists in the United States. It presents the National Cartoonists Society Awards.
Natural language processing (NLP) is a field of computer science, artificial intelligence and computational linguistics concerned with the interactions between computers and human (natural) languages, and, in particular, concerned with programming computers to fruitfully process large natural language corpora. Challenges in natural language processing frequently involve natural language understanding, natural language generation (frequently from formal, machine-readable logical forms), connecting language and machine perception, dialog systems, or some combination thereof.
Nihilism ( or ; from the Latin , nothing) is a philosophical doctrine that suggests the lack of belief in one or more reputedly meaningful aspects of life.  Most commonly, nihilism is presented in the form of existential nihilism, which argues that life is without objective meaning, purpose, or intrinsic value.
thumb|right|250px|The &quot;[[Pillars of Creation&quot; from the Eagle Nebula. Evidence from the Spitzer Telescope suggests that the pillars may already have been destroyed by a supernova explosion, but the light showing us the destruction will not reach the Earth for another millennium.
Natural theology, once also termed physico-theology, is a type of theology that provides arguments for the existence of God based on reason and ordinary experience of nature. This distinguishes it from revealed theology, which is based on scripture and/or religious experiences, and also from transcendental theology, which is based on a priori reasoning.
This day marks the approximate midpoint of autumn in the Northern Hemisphere and of spring in the Southern Hemisphere (starting the season at the September equinox).
}}
Nucleariida is a group of amoebae with filose pseudopods, known mostly from soils and freshwater. They are distinguished from the superficially similar vampyrellids mainly by having mitochondria with discoid cristae.
Natural resources are resources that exist without actions of humankind. This includes all valued characteristics such as magnetic, gravitational, and electrical properties and forces.
New Amsterdam () was a 17th-century Dutch settlement established at the southern tip of Manhattan Island that served as the seat of the colonial government in New Netherland. The factorij became a settlement outside of Fort Amsterdam.
Modern Paganism, also known as Contemporary Paganism and Neopaganism, is a collective term for new religious movements influenced by or claiming to be derived from the various historical pagan beliefs of pre-modern Europe, North Africa and the Near East. Although they do share similarities, contemporary Pagan religious movements are diverse, and no single set of beliefs, practices or texts are shared by them all.
}}
A number is a mathematical object used to count, measure, and label. The original examples are the natural numbers 1, 2, 3, 4 and so forth.
Nightclub two step (NC2S, sometimes disco two step or california two step) is a partner dance initially developed by Buddy Schwimmer in the mid-1960s. The dance is also known as &quot;Two Step&quot; and was &quot;one of the most popular forms of contemporary social dance&quot; as a Disco Couples Dance in 1978.
}}
Next}}
Nebuchadnezzar (or Nebuchadrezzar) was the name of several kings of Babylonia:
Nehemiah may refer to:
In the Abrahamic religions, Noah (;LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «nō´a» ;  Nukh;  ; ) was the tenth and last of the pre-flood Patriarchs.
(East and North)  (West)
In general, a node is a localised swelling (a &quot;knot&quot;) or a point of intersection (a vertex).
thumb|200px|right| [[Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz argued that idealized numbers containing infinitesimals be introduced.]]
Nerve agents are a class of phosphorus-containing organic chemicals (organophosphates) that disrupt the mechanisms by which nerves transfer messages to organs. The disruption is caused by blocking acetylcholinesterase, an enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of acetylcholine, a neurotransmitter.
Null may refer to:
North Africa is a group of Mediterranean countries situated in the northern-most region of the African continent. The term &quot;North Africa&quot; has no single accepted definition.
Based in Foxborough since 1971
Nonlinear optics (NLO) is the branch of optics that describes the behavior of light in nonlinear media, that is, media in which the dielectric polarization P responds nonlinearly to the electric field E of the light. The nonlinearity is typically observed only at very high light intensities (values of the electric field comparable to interatomic electric fields, typically 108 V/m) such as those provided by lasers.
Neuromancer is a 1984 science fiction novel by American-Canadian writer William Gibson. It is one of the best-known works in the cyberpunk genre and the first novel to win the Nebula Award, the Philip K.
==Events==
A nursery rhyme is a traditional poem or song for children in Britain and many other countries, but usage of the term only dates from the late 18th/early 19th century. In North America the term Mother Goose Rhymes, introduced in the mid-18th century, is still often used.
The New Age is a term applied to a range of spiritual or religious beliefs and practices that developed in Western nations during the 1970s. Precise scholarly definitions of the New Age differ in their emphasis, largely as a result of its highly eclectic structure.
Contender}}
Nationalism is a range of political, social, and economic systems characterised by promoting the interests of a particular nation, particularly with the aim of gaining and maintaining self-governance, or full sovereignty, over the group's homeland. The political ideology therefore holds that a nation should govern itself, free from unwanted outside interference, and is linked to the concept of self-determination.
Various Wiccan traditions hold a wide range of differing beliefs about sexual orientation. British Traditional Wicca is known for stressing &quot;male/female polarity&quot; in their theology and rituals.
The word nation stems from the Latin natio, meaning &quot;people, tribe, kin, genus, class, flock.&quot; Black's Law Dictionary defines a nation as:
million
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
thumb|220px|right|Part of the master transmitter [[Antenna (radio)|antenna at Lake Kickapoo, Texas c.2001.
The United States National Film Preservation Board (NFPB) is the board selecting films for preservation in the Library of Congress' National Film Registry. It was established by the National Film Preservation Act of 1988.
The nominative case  (abbreviated ) is one of the grammatical cases of a noun or other part of speech, which generally marks the subject of a verb or the predicate noun or predicate adjective, as opposed to its object or other verb arguments. Generally, the noun &quot;that is doing something&quot; is in the nominative, and the nominative is often the form listed in dictionaries.
Neapolitan sauce, also called Napoli sauce or Napoletana sauce  is the collective name given (outside Italy) to various basic tomato-based sauces derived from Italian cuisine, often served over or alongside pasta.
Nociception (also nocioception or nociperception, from Latin nocere 'to harm or hurt') is the sensory nervous system's response to certain harmful or potentially harmful stimuli. In nociception, intense chemical (e.
frame|right|Artist's conception of a white dwarf, right, [[Accretion (astrophysics)|accreting hydrogen from a larger companion]]
A nuclear weapon is an explosive device that derives its destructive force from nuclear reactions, either fission (fission bomb) or from a combination of fission and fusion reactions (thermonuclear bomb). Both bomb types release large quantities of energy from relatively small amounts of matter.
thumb|Reconstructed Ninth Fort
Nostratic is a macrofamily, or hypothetical large-scale language family, which includes many of the indigenous language families of Eurasia, although its exact composition and structure vary among proponents. It typically comprises the Indo-European, Uralic, Altaic and Kartvelian languages, as well as the Afroasiatic languages spoken in North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Arabian Peninsula and the Near East, and the Dravidian languages of the Indian Subcontinent (sometimes also Elamo-Dravidian, which connects India and the Iranian Plateau).
In computing, a namespace is a set of symbols that are used to organize objects of various kinds, so that these objects may be referred to by name. Prominent examples include:
thumb|200px|[[Russian Orthodox icon of the Prophet Nahum, 18th century (Iconostasis of Transfiguration Church, Kizhi Monastery, Karelia, Russia).]]
==Events==
Newfoundland English is a name for several accents and dialects of English found in the province of Newfoundland and Labrador.  Most of these differ substantially from the English commonly spoken elsewhere in Canada and the North Atlantic.
A national flag is a flag that symbolizes a country. The flag is flown by the government, but usually can also be flown by citizens of the country.
==Events==
==Events==
,Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Nemo is Latin for &quot;no one.&quot; It may refer to:
Naked News is a Canadian news and entertainment program owned by Naked Broadcasting Network. It features naked women reading news bulletins derived from news wires.
Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides or Their Transboundary Fluxes, opened for signature on 31 October 1988 and entered into force on 14 February 1991, was to provide for the control or reduction of nitrogen oxides and their transboundary fluxes. It was concluded in Sofia, Bulgaria.
.
A national park is a park in use for conservation purposes. Often it is a reserve of natural, semi-natural, or developed land that a sovereign state declares or owns.
Nuncio (officially known as an Apostolic nuncio and also known as a papal nuncio) is the title for an ecclesiastical diplomat, being an envoy or permanent diplomatic representative of the Holy See to a state or international organization. A nuncio is appointed by and represents the Holy See, and is the head of the diplomatic mission, called an Apostolic Nunciature, which is the equivalent of an embassy.
The Newlyn School was an art colony of artists based in or near Newlyn, a fishing village adjacent to Penzance, Cornwall, from the 1880s until the early twentieth century.  The establishment of the Newlyn School was reminiscent of the Barbizon School in France, where artists fled Paris to paint in a more pure setting emphasizing natural light.
In philosophical ethics, the term &quot;naturalistic fallacy&quot; was introduced by British philosopher G. E.
Nature, in the broadest sense, is the natural, physical, or material world or universe. &quot;Nature&quot; can refer to the phenomena of the physical world, and also to life in general.
}}
In the mathematical subfield of numerical analysis, a B-spline, or basis spline, is a spline function that has minimal support with respect to a given degree, smoothness, and domain partition. Any spline function of given degree can be expressed as a linear combination of B-splines of that degree.
The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole, is (subject to the caveats explained below) defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface.
A nucleosome is a basic unit of DNA packaging in eukaryotes, consisting of a segment of DNA wound in sequence around eightMcGrawhill histone protein cores.
Nordic most commonly refers to:
Neurosurgery, or neurological surgery, is the medical specialty concerned with the prevention, diagnosis, surgical treatment, and rehabilitation of disorders which affect any portion of the nervous system including the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, and extra-cranial cerebrovascular system.http://biomed.
, Ultra 64
The Nieuwe Waterweg (&quot;New Waterway&quot;) is a ship canal in the Netherlands from het Scheur (a branch of the Rhine-Meuse-Scheldt delta) west of the town of Maassluis to the North Sea at Hook of Holland: the Maasmond, where the Nieuwe Waterweg connects to the Maasgeul. It is the artificial mouth of the river Rhine.
Neijia is a term in Chinese martial arts, grouping those styles that practice neijing, usually translated as internal martial arts, occupied with spiritual, mental or qi-related aspects, as opposed to an &quot;external&quot; approach focused on physiological aspects. The distinction dates to the 17th century, but its modern application is due to publications by Sun Lutang, dating to the period of 1915 to 1928.
Navigation is a field of study that focuses on the process of monitoring and controlling the movement of a craft or vehicle from one place to another.Bowditch, 2003:799.
Non-fiction or nonfiction is content (sometimes, in the form of a story) whose creator, in good faith, assumes responsibility for the truth or accuracy of the events, people, or information presented. In contrast, a story whose creator explicitly leaves open if and how the work refers to reality is usually classified as fiction.
Cryptonomicon is a 1999 novel by American author Neal Stephenson, set in two different time periods. One group of characters are World War II-era Allied codebreakers and tactical-deception operatives affiliated with the Government Code and Cypher School at Bletchley Park (UK), and disillusioned Axis military and intelligence figures.
thumb
Neurotransmitters, also known as chemical messengers, are endogenous chemicals that enable neurotransmission. They transmit signals across a chemical synapse, such as a neuromuscular junction, from one neuron (nerve cell) to another &quot;target&quot; neuron, muscle cell, or gland cell.
}}
A neutron star is the collapsed core of a large (10–29 solar masses) star. Neutron stars are the smallest and densest stars known to exist.
The Nuremberg trials (German: die Nürnberger Prozesse) were a series of military tribunals held by the Allied forces after World War II. The trials were most notable for the prosecution of prominent members of the political, military, judicial and economic leadership of Nazi Germany, who planned, carried out, or otherwise participated in the Holocaust and other war crimes.
The Nuremberg Code () is a set of research ethics principles for human experimentation set as a result of the subsequent Nuremberg trials at the end of the Second World War.
Nim is a mathematical game of strategy in which two players take turns removing objects from distinct heaps. On each turn, a player must remove at least one object, and may remove any number of objects provided they all come from the same heap.
(as National Bureau of Standards)
NATO reporting names are code names for military equipment of Russia, China, and, historically, the former Eastern Bloc (Soviet Union and other nations of the Warsaw Pact). They provide unambiguous and easily understood English words in a uniform manner in place of the original designations, which either may have been unknown to the Western world at the time or easily confused codes.
NATO reporting name for SS series surface-to-surface missiles, with Soviet designations:
NATO reporting name for AA series air-to-air missiles, with Soviet designations:
NATO reporting name for AS series air-to-surface missiles, with Soviet designations:
NATO reporting name for AT series anti-tank guided missiles, with Soviet designations:
NATO reporting name for SA series surface-to-air missiles, with Soviet designations:
This is a list of NATO reporting name/ASCC names for bombers, with Soviet and Chinese designations:
NATO reporting name/ASCC names for fighters, with Soviet, Russian and Chinese designations.
Helicopters, NATO/ASCC names:
NATO reporting name/ASCC names for transport aircraft and their Soviet, Russian and Chinese designations:
NATO reporting name/Air Standardization Coordinating Committee (ASCC) names for miscellaneous aircraft, with Soviet designations, sorted by reporting name:
This is a list of NATO reporting names for submarines, with Russian and Soviet Navy designations. The names are often derived from the NATO phonetic alphabet.
The Seven Laws of Noah ( Sheva Mitzvot B'nei Noah), also referred to as the Noahide Laws or the Noachide Laws (from the English transliteration of the Hebrew pronunciation of &quot;Noah&quot;), are a set of imperatives which, according to the Talmud, were given by God According to Encyclopedia Talmudit (Hebrew edition, Israel, 5741/1981, Entry Ben Noah, page 349), most medieval authorities consider that all seven commandments were given to Adam, although Maimonides (Mishneh Torah, Hilkhot M'lakhim 9:1) considers the dietary law to have been given to Noah. as a binding set of laws for the &quot;children of Noah&quot; – that is, all of humanity.
Naturism, or nudism, is a cultural and political movement practising, advocating, and defending personal and social nudity, most but not all of which takes place on private property. The term may also refer to a lifestyle based on personal, family, or social nudism.
}}
In abstract algebra, a normal subgroup is a subgroup which is invariant under conjugation by members of the group of which it is a part. In  other  words, a subgroup  of a group  is normal in  if and only if  Hg}} for all  in ; i.
Munkar and Nakir () (English translation: &quot;The Denied and The Denier&quot;) in Islamic eschatology, are angels who test the faith of the dead in their graves.Britannica Concise Encyclopedia, Entry: Munkar and Nakir
Napalm is a flammable liquid used in warfare. It is a mixture of a gelling agent and either gasoline (petrol) or a similar fuel.
The Northern Crusades or Baltic Crusades were religious wars undertaken by Catholic Christian military orders and kingdoms, primarily against the pagan Baltic, Finnic and Western Slavic peoples around the southern and eastern shores of the Baltic Sea, and to a lesser extent also against Orthodox Christian Slavs (East Slavs). The crusades took place mostly in the 12th and 13th centuries and resulted in the subjugation and forced baptism of indigenous peoples.
Neoteny ( Neoteny. (2012).
In general relativity, a naked singularity is a gravitational singularity without an event horizon. In a black hole, the singularity is completely enclosed by a boundary known as the event horizon, inside which the gravitational force of the singularity is so strong that light cannot escape.
The northern blot, or RNA blot,Gilbert, S. F.
A narrow-gauge railway (or narrow-gauge railroad in the US) is a railway with a track gauge narrower than the  of standard gauge railways. Most existing narrow-gauge railways are between  and .
Neutron activation analysis (NAA) is a nuclear process used for determining the concentrations of elements in a vast amount of materials. NAA allows discrete sampling of elements as it disregards the chemical form of a sample, and focuses solely on its nucleus.
In theoretical computer science, a Turing machine is a theoretical machine that is used in thought experiments to examine the abilities and limitations of computers.
The Neoproterozoic Era is the unit of geologic time from .
The nervous system is the part of an animal that coordinates its actions by transmitting signals to and from different parts of its body. Nervous tissue first arose in wormlike organisms about 550 to 600 million years ago.
A nutcracker is a tool designed to open nuts by cracking their shells. There are many designs, including levers, screws, and ratchets.
 |  خیبر پښتونخوا}}
The Nilo-Saharan languages are a proposed family of African languages spoken by some 50–60 million people, mainly in the upper parts of the Chari and Nile rivers, including historic Nubia, north of where the two tributaries of the Nile meet. The languages extend through 17 nations in the northern half of Africa: from Algeria to Benin in west; from Libya to the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the centre; and from Egypt to Tanzania in the east.
Nuclear pores are large protein complexes that cross the nuclear envelope, which is the double membrane surrounding the eukaryotic cell nucleus. There are about an average of 2000 nuclear pore complexes (NPCs), in the nuclear envelope of a vertebrate cell, but it varies depending on cell type and the stage in the life cycle.
The nucleolus ( or , plural nucleoli  or ) is the largest structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. It is best known as the site of ribosome biogenesis.
In chemistry and physics, a nucleon is either a proton or a neutron, considered in its role as a component of an atomic nucleus. The number of nucleons in a nucleus defines an isotope's mass number (nucleon number).
Nicolas Chauvin () is a legendary, possibly apocryphal French soldier and patriot who is supposed to have served in the First Army of the French Republic and subsequently in La Grande Armée of Napoleon. His name is the eponym  of chauvinism, originally a term for excessive nationalistic fervor, but later used to refer to any form of bigotry or bias (e.
Nuclear may refer to:
A Network Service Access Point address (NSAP address), defined in ISO/IEC 8348, is an identifying label for a Service Access Point (SAP) used in OSI networking.
Deep Submergence Vessel NR-1 was a unique United States Navy (USN) nuclear-powered ocean engineering and research submarine, built by the Electric Boat Division of General Dynamics at Groton, Connecticut. NR-1 was launched on 25 January 1969, completed initial sea trials 19 August 1969, and was home-ported at Naval Submarine Base New London.
(as Mosaic Communications Corporation)
*  http://www.innu-aimun.
The New Oxford American Dictionary (NOAD) is a single-volume dictionary of American English compiled by American editors at the Oxford University Press.
Neo-Latin may refer to:
Naive Set Theory is a mathematics textbook by Paul Halmos providing an undergraduate introduction to set theory.Review of Naive Set Theory by H.
Nitrogen fixation is a process by which nitrogen in the Earth's atmosphere is converted into ammonia (NH3) or other molecules available to living organisms.  Atmospheric nitrogen or molecular dinitrogen (N2) is relatively inert: it does not easily react with other chemicals to form new compounds.
Whereas originally the term Navigation applies to the process of directing a ship to a destination, Navigation research deals with fundamental aspects of navigation in general. It can be defined as &quot;The process of determining and maintaining a course or trajectory to a goal location&quot; (Franz, Mallot, 2000).
The nomenklatura (; ) were a category of people within the Soviet Union and other Eastern Bloc countries who held various key administrative positions in the bureaucracy, running all spheres of those countries' activity: government, industry, agriculture, education, etc., whose positions were granted only with approval by the communist party of each country or region.
Neural Darwinism, a large scale theory of brain function by Gerald Edelman, was initially published in 1978, in a book called The Mindful Brain (MIT Press). It was extended and published in the 1987 book Neural Darwinism – The Theory of Neuronal Group Selection.
Neo Geo Multi Video System
Neopets (originally NeoPets) is a virtual pet website. Users can own virtual pets (&quot;Neopets&quot;), and buy virtual items for them using one of two virtual currencies.
Novial [nov- (&quot;new&quot;) + IAL, International Auxiliary Language] is a constructed international auxiliary language (IAL) for universal communication between speakers of different native languages.  It was devised by Otto Jespersen, a Danish linguist who had been involved in the Ido movement, and later in the development of Interlingua de IALA.
In music, a note is the pitch and duration of a sound, and also its representation in musical notation (♪, ♩). A note can also represent a pitch class.
Nephrology (from Greeknephros &quot;kidney&quot;, combined with the suffix -logy, &quot;the study of&quot;) is a specialty of medicine and pediatrics that concerns itself with the kidneys: the study of normal kidney function and kidney problems, the preservation of kidney health, and the treatment of kidney problems, from diet and medication to   renal replacement therapy (dialysis and kidney transplantation). Systemic conditions that affect the kidneys (such as diabetes and autoimmune disease) and systemic problems that occur as a result of kidney problems (such as renal osteodystrophy and hypertension) are also studied in nephrology.
Native Esperanto speakers (Esperanto: denaskuloj or denaskaj esperantistoj) are people who have acquired Esperanto as one of their native languages.  As of 1996, there were 350 or so attested cases of families with native Esperanto speakers.
A naturalistic planned language is a constructed language specifically devised to reproduce the commonalities in morphology and vocabulary from a group of closely related languages, usually with the idea that such a language will be relatively easier to use passively -- in many cases, without prior study -- by speakers of one or more languages in the group.
In physics, the no-cloning theorem states that it is impossible to create an identical copy of an arbitrary unknown quantum state. This no-go theorem of quantum mechanics was articulated by Wootters and Zurek and Dieks in 1982, and has profound implications in quantum computing and related fields.
N rays (or N-rays) were a hypothesized form of radiation, described by French physicist Prosper-René Blondlot in 1903, and initially confirmed by others, but subsequently found to be illusory.
Nuon is a technology developed by VM Labs that adds features to a DVD player. In addition to viewing DVDs, one can play 3D video games and use enhanced DVD navigational tools such as zoom and smooth scanning of DVD playback.
Nashville is the capital of the U.S.
thumb|250px|The [[American lobster, a part of New England cuisine.]]
}}
National Lampoon was an American humor magazine which ran from 1970 to 1998. The magazine started out as a spinoff from the Harvard Lampoon.
A non-disclosure agreement (NDA), also known as a confidentiality agreement (CA), confidential disclosure agreement (CDA), proprietary information agreement (PIA) or secrecy agreement (SA), is a legal contract between at least two parties that outlines confidential material, knowledge, or information that the parties wish to share with one another for certain purposes, but wish to restrict access to or by third parties. It is a contract through which the parties agree not to disclose information covered by the agreement.
right|thumb|Diagram showing the network effect in a few simple phone networks. The lines represent potential calls between phones.
In nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry, nuclear fission is either a nuclear reaction or a radioactive decay process in which the nucleus of an atom splits into smaller parts (lighter nuclei). The fission process often produces free neutrons and gamma photons, and releases a very large amount of energy even by the energetic standards of radioactive decay.
A nymph (, nýmphē ) in Greek mythology and in Latin mythology is a minor female nature deity typically associated with a particular location or landform. Different from other goddesses, nymphs are generally regarded as divine spirits who animate nature, and are usually depicted as beautiful, young nubile maidens who love to dance and sing; their amorous freedom sets them apart from the restricted and chaste wives and daughters of the Greek polis.
Norse may refer to:
Natural law (, lex naturalis) is a philosophy asserting that certain rights are inherent by virtue of human nature endowed by nature; traditionally God or a transcendent source, and can be understood universally through human reason. As determined by nature, the law of nature is implied to be universal, existing independently of the positive law of a given state, political order, legislature or society at large.
right|190px|thumb|In the Nestorian view, the human and divine persons of Christ are separate.Hogan, Dissent from the Creed.
NCR may refer to:
P ?}}
One of the oldest descriptions of nori is dated to around the 8th century. In the Taihō Code enacted in 701, nori was already included in the form of taxation.
Normative ethics is the study of ethical action. It is the branch of philosophical ethics that investigates the set of questions that arise when considering how one ought to act, morally speaking.
Negotiation is a dialogue between two or more people or parties intended to reach a beneficial outcome over one or more issues where a conflict exists with respect to at least one of these issues. This beneficial outcome can be for all of the parties involved, or just for one or some of them.
Table 26–1 = Table 3–2 Percentage of women experiencing an unintended pregnancy during the first year of typical use and the first year of perfect use of contraception, and the percentage continuing use at the end of the first year. United States.
Nu metal (also known as nü-metal and ) is a form of  that combines elements of  with elements of other music genres such as hip hop, alternative rock, funk and grunge. Nu metal bands have drawn elements and influences from a variety of musical styles, including multiple genres of heavy metal.
The NBA is the National Basketball Association, a men's professional basketball league in North America.
(as BAA),New York City, New York, U.S.
Nutation (from Latin nūtātiō, &quot;nodding, swaying&quot;) is a rocking, swaying, or nodding motion in the axis of rotation of a largely axially symmetric object, such as a gyroscope, planet, or bullet in flight, or as an intended behavior of a mechanism. In an appropriate reference frame it can be defined as a change in the second Euler angle.
NASCO or Nasco may refer to:
The North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization (NASCO) is an international organization established under the Convention for the Conservation of Salmon in the North Atlantic Ocean from 1 October 1983.
In Greek mythology, Narcissus (; , Nárkissos) was a hunter from Thespiae in Boeotia who was known for his beauty. He was the son of the river god Cephissus and nymph Liriope.
thumb|300px|Polish wz. 08/39 contact mine.
}}
&quot;Bukharin&quot; redirects here. For the Jewish ethnic group, see Bukharan Jews
true nasal fricatives}}
thumb|right|upright|RCA 6DS4 &quot;Nuvistor&quot; triode vacuum tube, ca. 20 mm high and 11 mm in diameter.
No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies is a book by the Canadian author Naomi Klein. First published by Knopf Canada and Picador in December 1999, shortly after the 1999 WTO Ministerial Conference protests in Seattle had generated media attention around such issues, it became one of the most influential books about the alter-globalization movement and an international bestseller.
Neelin is a small community in the Canadian province of Manitoba. It is located on Manitoba Provincial Highway 5 in the Rural Municipality of Argyle, about 29 km east of Killarney, or about 200 km southwest of Winnipeg.
The Northern Hemisphere is the half of Earth that is north of the equator. For other planets in the Solar System, north is defined as being in the same celestial hemisphere relative to the invariable plane of the solar system as Earth's North pole.
In linguistics, a noun class is a particular category of nouns. A noun may belong to a given class because of the characteristic features of its referent, such as sex, animacy, shape, but counting a given noun among nouns of such or another class is often clearly conventional.
Natural gas is a naturally occurring hydrocarbon gas mixture consisting primarily of methane, but commonly including varying amounts of other higher alkanes, and sometimes a small percentage of carbon dioxide, nitrogen, hydrogen sulfide, or helium. It is formed when layers of decomposing plant and animal matter are exposed to intense heat and pressure under the surface of the Earth over millions of years.
300px|thumb|A possible [[nuclear fission chain reaction. 1.
thumb|An Illustrated image of the [[Lotus Sūtra, which is highly revered in Nichiren Buddhism. From the Kamakura period, circa 1257.
Newport News Shipbuilding (NNS), a division of Huntington Ingalls Industries, is the largest industrial employer in Virginia, and sole designer, builder and refueler of U.S.
}}
thumb|180px|Niccolò Fontana Tartaglia.
Nāgārjuna (c. 150 – c.
A nuclear reactor, formerly known as an atomic pile, is a device used to initiate and control a sustained nuclear chain reaction. Nuclear reactors are used at nuclear power plants for electricity generation and in propulsion of ships.
BI Norwegian Business School () is the largest business school in Norway and the second largest in all of Europe. BI has in total four campuses with the main one located in Oslo.
}}
NPT may refer to:
Nuclear energy may refer to:
In electronic design, a netlist is a description of the connectivity of an electronic circuit. In its simplest form, a netlist consists of a list of the electronic components in a circuit and a list of the nodes they are connected to.
Nuclear disarmament refers to both the act of reducing or eliminating nuclear weapons and to the end state of a nuclear-weapons-free world, in which nuclear weapons are completely eliminated.
In mathematics, more specifically in general topology and related branches, a net or Moore–Smith sequence is a generalization of the notion of a sequence. In essence, a sequence is a function with domain the natural numbers, and in the context of topology, the codomain of this function is usually any topological space.
Nuclear winter is the severe and prolonged global climatic cooling effect hypothesizedSoviet exploitation of the 'nuclear winter' hypothesis Dr. Leon Goure 1985, Defense Nuclear Agency TR-84-373.
An ode (from ) is a type of lyrical stanza. It is an elaborately structured poem praising or glorifying an event or individual, describing nature intellectually as well as emotionally.
The Temple of Olympian Zeus (, Naos tou Olympiou Dios), also known as the Olympieion or Columns of the Olympian Zeus, is a monument of Greece and a former colossal temple at the centre of the Greek capital Athens. It was dedicated to Olympian Zeus, a name originating from his position as head of the Olympian gods.
Organic electronics is a field of materials science concerning the design, synthesis, characterization, and application of organic small molecules or polymers that show desirable electronic properties such as conductivity. Unlike conventional inorganic conductors and semiconductors, organic electronic materials are constructed from organic (carbon-based) small molecules or polymers using synthetic strategies developed in the context of organic and polymer chemistry.
An operating system (OS) is system software that manages computer hardware and software resources and provides common services for computer programs. All computer programs, excluding firmware, require an operating system to function.
Open content is a neologism coined by David Wiley in 1998 which describes a creative work that others can copy or modify freely, without asking for permission. The term evokes the related concept of open-source software.
Orbital  may refer to:
thumb|right|upright|[[Methane, CH4; it is one of the simplest organic compounds.]]
An oligopoly () is a market form wherein a market or industry is dominated by a small number of sellers (oligopolists).  Oligopolies can result from various forms of collusion which reduce competition and lead to higher prices for consumers.
thumb|Oasis in the [[Libyan part of the Sahara]]
OBOE}}
Organic chemistry is a chemistry subdiscipline involving the scientific study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic compounds and organic materials, i.e.
An orthography is a set of conventions for writing a language. It includes norms of spelling, hyphenation, capitalization, word breaks, emphasis, and punctuation.
In cryptography, the one-time pad (OTP) is an encryption technique that cannot be cracked, but requires the use of a one-time pre-shared key the same size as, or longer than, the message being sent. In this technique, a plaintext is paired with a random secret key (also referred to as a one-time pad).
In mathematics, an operator is generally a mapping that acts on the elements of a space to produce other elements of the same space. The most common operators are linear maps, which act on vector spaces.
}}
Objectivism is a philosophical system developed by Russian-American writer Ayn Rand (1905–1982). Rand first expressed Objectivism in her fiction, most notably The Fountainhead (1943) and Atlas Shrugged (1957), and later in non-fiction essays and books.
An oath of office is an oath or affirmation a person takes before undertaking the duties of an office, usually a position in government or within a religious body, although such oaths are sometimes required of officers of other organizations. Such oaths are often required by the laws of the state, religious body, or other organization before the person may actually exercise the powers of the office or any religious body.
Ontology is the philosophical [of the nature of being], [[Becoming (philosophy)|becoming, existence or reality, as well as the basic categories of being and their relations.Merriam-Webster Dictionary Traditionally listed as a part of the major branch of philosophy known as metaphysics, ontology often deals with questions concerning what entities exist or may be said to exist and how such entities may be grouped, related within a hierarchy, and subdivided according to similarities and differences.
}}
Oregano ( or ; ;, scientific name Origanum vulgare, is a flowering plant in the mint family (Lamiaceae). It is native to temperate western and southwestern Eurasia and the Mediterranean region.
Oregonian may refer to:
In the context of mailing lists, discussion groups, discussion forums, bulletin boards,  newsgroups, and wikis a contribution is off-topic if it is not within the bounds of the current discussion, and on-topic if it is.
}}
}}
The Oligocene () is a geologic epoch of the Paleogene Period and extends from about 33.9 million to 23 million years before the present ( to ).
&quot;Ozymandias&quot; (in five syllables: , ; or four: , ) The four-syllable pronunciation is used by Shelley to fit the poem's meter. is a sonnet written by English Romantic poet Percy Bysshe Shelley (1792–1822), first published in the 11 January 1818 issue of The Examiner
An open-source license is a type of license for computer software and other products that allows the source code, blueprint or design to be used, modified and/or shared under defined terms and conditions. This allows end users and commercial companies to review and modify the source code, blueprint or design for their own customization, curiosity or troubleshooting needs.
to
The Old Turkic script (also known as variously Göktürk script, Orkhon script, Orkhon-Yenisey script) is the alphabet used by the Göktürks and other early Turkic khanates during the 8th to 10th centuries to record the Old Turkic language.Scharlipp, Wolfgang (2000).
The Open Source Definition is a document published by the Open Source Initiative, to determine whether a software license can be labeled with the open-source certification mark.
OSI may refer to:
or dioxygen|other forms of this element|Allotropes of oxygen|other uses|Oxygen (disambiguation)|and|O2 (disambiguation)}}
Osmium (from Greek ὀσμή osme, &quot;smell&quot;) is a chemical element with symbol Os and atomic number 76. It is a hard, brittle, bluish-white transition metal in the platinum group that is found as a trace element in alloys, mostly in platinum ores.
thumb|right|[[Silicon dioxide]]
Overgrazing occurs when plants are exposed to intensive grazing for extended periods of time, or without sufficient recovery periods. It can be caused by either livestock in poorly managed agricultural applications, game reserves, or nature reserves.
Outing is the act of disclosing an LGBT person's sexual orientation or gender identity without that person's consent. Outing gives rise to issues of privacy, choice, hypocrisy, and harm in addition to sparking debate on what constitutes common good in efforts to combat homophobia and heterosexism.
Out may refer to:
O (named o , plural oes)&quot;O&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989);Chambers-Happap, &quot;oes&quot; op. cit.
Oligarchy ( (oligarkhía)}}; )&quot;ὀλίγος&quot;, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus Digital Library&quot;ἄρχω&quot;, Liddell/Scott.&quot;ὀλιγαρχία&quot;.
(Arabic)
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Oman, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Oman takes place in a framework of an absolute monarchy whereby the Sultan of Oman is not only head of state, but also the head of government. Chief of state and government is the hereditary sultan, Qaboos bin Said al Said, who appoints a cabinet to assist him.
Oman Telecommunication Company (Omantel) has a monopoly in the landline telephone and internet access markets. Its arm Omanmobile offers mobile services.
This article is about transport in Oman.
When Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said assumed power in 1970, Oman had limited contacts with the outside world, including neighbouring Arab states. A special treaty relationship permitted the United Kingdom close involvement in Oman's civil and military affairs.
The Old Testament (abbreviated OT) is the first part of Christian Bibles based primarily upon the Hebrew Bible (or Tanakh), a collection of ancient religious writings by the Israelites believed by many Christians and religious Jews to be the sacred Word of God.Preface to the New Revised Standard Version Anglicised Edition Its counterpart is the New Testament, the second part of the Christian Bible.
The octal numeral system, or oct for short, is the base-8 number system, and uses the digits 0 to 7. Octal numerals can be made from binary numerals by grouping consecutive binary digits into groups of three (starting from the right).
Oi  is an interjection used in various varieties of the English language, particularly British English, Australian English, New Zealand English, Canadian English, Irish English, Singaporean English and Southern African English, as well as Hindi and Japanese to get the attention of another person or to express surprise or disapproval.&quot;Oi&quot;.
Oct}}
==Events==
The Oberkommando des Heeres (OKH) was the Supreme High Command of the German Army. It was founded in 1935 as a part of Adolf Hitler's re-militarisation of the Third Reich.
Operation Sea Lion, also written as Operation Sealion (), was Nazi Germany's code name for the plan for an invasion of the United Kingdom during the Battle of Britain in the Second World War. Following the Fall of France, Adolf Hitler, the German Führer and Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, hoped the British government would seek a peace agreement and he reluctantly considered invasion only as a last resort if all other options failed.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Observational error (or measurement error) is the difference between a measured value of a quantity and its true value.Dodge, Y.
==Events==
Opera (; English plural: operas; Italian plural: opere ) is an art form in which singers and musicians perform a dramatic work combining text (libretto) and musical score, usually in a theatrical setting.Some definitions of opera: &quot;dramatic performance or composition of which music is an essential part, branch of art concerned with this&quot; (Concise Oxford English Dictionary); &quot;any dramatic work that can be sung (or at times declaimed or spoken) in a place for performance, set to original music for singers (usually in costume) and instrumentalists&quot; (Amanda Holden, Viking Opera Guide); &quot;musical work for the stage with singing characters, originated in early years of 17th century&quot; (Pears Cyclopaedia, 1983 ed.
The Odyssey (;  Odýsseia,  in Classical Attic) is one of two major ancient Greek epic poems attributed to Homer. It is, in part, a sequel to the Iliad, the other work ascribed to Homer.
This is the complete list of men's medalists in athletics at the Summer Olympics. It does not include the medalists from the Athletics at the 1906 Intercalated Games – these are no longer regarded as an official part of the Olympic chronology by the IOC.
This is the complete list of women's Olympic medalists in athletics.
Basketball is a sport contested at the Summer Olympic Games. A men's basketball tournament was first held at the 1904 Olympics as a demonstration; it has been held at every Summer Olympics since 1936.
This article includes lists of all &quot;olympic medalists&quot; since 1896, organized by each Olympic sport or discipline, and also by Olympiad.
In mathematics, an ordered pair (a, b) is a pair of objects. The order in which the objects appear in the pair is significant: the ordered pair (a, b) is different from the ordered pair (b, a) unless a = b.
==Events==
==Events==
The term Old Catholic Church was originally used from the 1850s by groups which had separated from the Roman Catholic Church over certain doctrines, primarily concerned with papal authority. These churches are not in full communion with the Roman Catholic Church.
In computing object code, or sometimes an object module, is what a compiler produces. In a general sense object code is a sequence of statements or instructions in a computer language, usually a machine code language (i.
Oberon is a legendary king of the fairies.
The Oort cloud ( or , named after the Dutch astronomer Jan Oort), sometimes called the Öpik–Oort cloud, is a theoretical cloud of predominantly icy planetesimals believed to surround the Sun to as far as somewhere between .The Oort cloud's outer limit is difficult to define as it varies over the millennia as different stars pass the Sun and thus is subject to variation.
Oland (, North Frisian: Ualöönist) is a small hallig which is connected by a narrow gauge railway to the mainland and to hallig Langeneß.
Oil is any of a number of nonpolar, hydrophobic, and viscous liquids.
Optimization, optimisation, or optimality may refer to:
==Events==
The Organization of Asia-Pacific News Agencies (OANA) is an association of news agencies from UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) member states in the Asia-Pacific region. It was previously known as the Organisation of Asian News Agencies.
Orange usually refers to:
The Olney Hymns  were first published in February 1779 and are the combined work of curate John Newton (1725–1807) and his poet friend, William Cowper (1731–1800). The hymns were written for use in Newton's rural parish, which was made up of relatively poor and uneducated followers.
The theory of recapitulation, also called the biogenetic law or embryological parallelism—often expressed using Ernst Haeckel's phrase  &quot;ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny&quot;—is a discredited hypothesis that the development of the embryo of an animal, from fertilization to gestation or hatching (ontogeny), goes through stages resembling or representing successive stages in the evolution of the animal's remote ancestors (phylogeny). Since embryos also evolve in different ways, the theory of recapitulation is seen as an historical side-note.
The Ostrogoths (; ) were the eastern branch of the later Goths (the other major branch being the Visigoths). The Ostrogoths traced their origins to the Greutungi – a branch of the Goths who had migrated southward from the Baltic Sea and established a kingdom north of the Black Sea, during the 3rd and 4th centuries.
In mathematics, an ordered field is a field together with a total ordering of its elements that is compatible with the field operations. Historically, the axiomatization of an ordered field was abstracted gradually from the real numbers, by mathematicians including David Hilbert, Otto Hölder and Hans Hahn.
In complexity theory and computability theory, an oracle machine is an abstract machine used to study decision problems. It can be visualized as a Turing machine with a black box, called an oracle, which is able to solve certain decision problems in a single operation.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Offa is a legendary king of the Angles in the genealogy of the kings of Mercia presented in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle. He is the son of Wermund and the father of Angeltheow.
thumb|right|219px|An unusual case of a [[Orbital resonance#Laplace resonance|three-body resonance among Jupiter's Galilean moons]]
==Events==
Oxy  may refer to:
An open-wheel car (formula car, or often single-seater car in British English) is a car with the wheels outside the car's main body, and usually having only one seat. Open-wheel cars contrast with street cars, sports cars, stock cars, and touring cars, which have their wheels below the body or inside fenders.
Offshore powerboat racing is a type of racing by ocean-going powerboats, typically point-to-point racing.
==Events==
In geometry, an octahedron (plural: octahedra) is a polyhedron with eight faces, twelve edges, and six vertices.  The term is most commonly used to refer to the regular octahedron, a Platonic solid composed of eight equilateral triangles, four of which meet at each [
Othello (The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice) is a tragedy by William Shakespeare, believed to have been written in 1603. It is based on the story Un Capitano Moro (&quot;A Moorish Captain&quot;) by Cinthio, a disciple of Boccaccio, first published in 1565.
}}}}
Ontogeny (also ontogenesis or morphogenesis) is the origination and development of an organism, usually from the time of fertilization of the egg to the organism's mature form—although the term can be used to refer to the study of the entirety of an organism's lifespan.
Ophiúchus, genitive
Orion may refer to:
, genitive
Optics is the branch of physics which involves the behaviour and properties of light, including its interactions with matter and the construction of instruments that use or detect it. Optics usually describes the behaviour of visible, ultraviolet, and infrared light.
OS, O.S.
thumb|As more distant stars are revealed in this animation depicting an infinite, homogeneous and static universe, they fill the gaps between closer stars. Olbers's paradox argues that as the night sky is dark, one of these three assumptions about the nature of the universe must be false.
The occult (from the Latin word occultus &quot;clandestine, hidden, secret&quot;) is &quot;knowledge of the hidden&quot;.Crabb, G.
thumb|upright|alt=The tranquillity of an Oxbridge college glimpsed through an open wicket gate in the outside oak door. Paving stones lead to a grass quadrangle in front of an old two-storey building in yellow-pink stone, with sash windows on the upper floor above a passage entrance decorated with rococo carving and painted crest, leading to another grassed quadrangle.
Oberon is a general-purpose programming language created in 1986 by Niklaus Wirth and the latest member of the Wirthian family of ALGOL-like languages (Euler, Algol-W, Pascal, Modula, and Modula-2).Wirth, Niklaus: The Programming Language Oberon.
In physics, an orbit is the gravitationally curved trajectory of an object around a point in space, for example the orbit of a planet about a starThe Space Place :: What's a Barycenterorbit (astronomy) – Britannica Online Encyclopedia or a natural satellite around a planet. Normally, orbit refers to a regularly repeating path around a body, although it may occasionally be used for a non-recurring trajectory around a point in space.
frame|left|Animation of a typical off spin (finger spin) delivery.
Obelix (Obélix in French) is a cartoon character and protagonist in the French comic book series Asterix. He works as a menhir sculptor and deliveryman, and is Asterix's best friend.
}}
Orienteering is a group of sports that requires navigational skills using a map and compass to navigate from point to point in diverse and usually unfamiliar terrain whilst moving at speed. Participants are given a topographical map, usually a specially prepared orienteering map, which they use to find control points.
Oscillation is the repetitive variation, typically in time, of some measure about a central value (often a point of equilibrium) or between two or more different states. The term vibration is precisely used to describe mechanical oscillation.
==Events==
Organometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing at least one chemical bond between a carbon atom of an organic compound and a metal, including alkaline, alkaline earth, transition metal, and other cases. Moreover, some related compounds such as transition metal hydrides and metal phosphine complexes are often included in discussions of organometallic compounds.
==Events==
Operating system advocacy is the practice of attempting to increase the awareness and improve the perception of a computer operating system. The motivation behind this may be to increase the number of users of a system, to assert the superiority of one choice over another or out of brand loyalty, pride in an operating system's abilities, or, with open source operating systems, political or philosophical reasons, or to persuade software vendors to port specific applications or device drivers to the platform.
An onomatopoeia (,; from the Greek ὀνοματοποιία;ὀνοματοποιία, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus ὄνομα for &quot;name&quot;ὄνομα, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus and ποιέω for &quot;I make&quot;,ποιέω, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus adjectival form: &quot;onomatopoeic&quot; or &quot;onomatopoetic&quot;) is a word that phonetically imitates, resembles or suggests the sound that it describes. As an uncountable noun, onomatopoeia refers to the property of such words.
==Events==
Orange-Nassau may refer to
==Events==
Odysseus (;  ), also known by the Latin variant Ulysses (, ; ), was a legendary Greek king of Ithaca and the hero of Homer's epic poem the Odyssey. Odysseus also plays a key role in Homer's Iliad and other works in that same epic cycle.
thumb|400px|Orient House (former PLO headquarters in Jerusalem)
==Events==
==Events==
Early Miocene-Present
==Events==
Orgasm (from Greek ὀργασμός orgasmos &quot;excitement, swelling&quot;; also sexual climax) is the sudden discharge of accumulated sexual excitement during the sexual response cycle, resulting in rhythmic muscular contractions in the pelvic region characterized by sexual pleasure.See 133–135 for orgasm information, and page 76 for G-spot and vaginal nerve ending information.
==Events==
les serments de Strasbourg die Straßburger Eide
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Old English literature or Anglo-Saxon literature, encompasses literature written in Old English, in Anglo-Saxon England from the 7th century to the decades after the Norman Conquest of 1066. &quot;Cædmon's Hymn&quot;, composed in the 7th century, according to Bede, is often considered the oldest extant poem in English, whereas the later poem, The Grave is one of the final poems written in Old English, and presents a transitional text between Old and Middle English.
Courtesy titles, New Scientist 10 May 1979, Page 445, ...The Phillips G7000 Videopac will be on sale in the UK this summer at around...
Obadiah (pronounced ,  ʿOvadyah or  ʿOvadyahu,I Kings 18:2 or in Modern Hebrew Ovadyah; &quot;slave of god&quot;) is a Biblical theophorical name, meaning &quot;servant of God&quot; or &quot;worshiper of Yahweh.&quot;New Bible Dictionary, second edition.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
}}
The modern Olympic Games or Olympics () are leading international sporting events featuring summer and winter sports competitions in which thousands of athletes from around the world participate in a variety of competitions. The Olympic Games are considered the world's foremost sports competition with more than 200 nations participating.
}}
Estrogen (American English) or oestrogen (British English) is the primary female sex hormone as well as a medication.  It is responsible for the development and regulation of the female reproductive system and secondary sex characteristics.
thumb|300px|Roland Octapad II Pad-80 (1989)
In classical antiquity, an oracle was a person or agency considered to provide wise and insightful counsel or prophetic predictions or precognition of the future, inspired by the gods. As such it is a form of divination.
}}
Omega-3 fatty acids—also called ω-3 fatty acids or n-3 fatty acids—are polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs)  with a double bond (C=C) at the third carbon atom from the end of the carbon chain. The fatty acids have two ends, the carboxylic acid (-COOH) end, which is considered the beginning of the chain, thus &quot;alpha&quot;, and the methyl (-CH3) end, which is considered the &quot;tail&quot; of the chain, thus &quot;omega&quot;; the double bond is at omega minus 3 (not dash 3).
thumb|[[Iron ore (banded iron formation)]]
Optical brighteners, optical brightening agents (OBAs), fluorescent brightening agents (FBAs), or fluorescent whitening agents (FWAs),  are chemical compounds that absorb light in the ultraviolet and violet region (usually 340-370 nm) of the electromagnetic spectrum, and re-emit light in the blue region (typically 420-470 nm) by fluorescence. Fluorescent emission is a short-lived period of light emission by a fluorophore, unlike phosphorescence, which is long-lived.
thumb|[[Mona Lisa, Leonardo da Vinci, c. 1503–06|alt=Painting is a portrait of a lady smiling subtly with her hands crossed.
Old Glory is a nickname for the flag of the United States. The original &quot;Old Glory&quot; was a flag owned by the 19th-century American sea captain William Driver (March 17, 1803 – March 3, 1886), who flew the flag during his career at sea and later brought it to Nashville, Tennessee, where he settled.
border
Ostracism (, ostrakismos) was a procedure under the Athenian democracy in which any citizen could be expelled from the city-state of Athens for ten years. While some instances clearly expressed popular anger at the citizen, ostracism was often used preemptively.
Omega (capital: Ω, lowercase: ω; Greek Ωμέγα) is the 24th and last letter of the Greek alphabet. In the Greek numeric system, it has a value of 800.
)
The term Orthodox or Orthodoxy may refer to:
Table 26–1 = Table 3–2 Percentage of women experiencing an unintended pregnancy during the first year of typical use and the first year of perfect use of contraception, and the percentage continuing use at the end of the first year. United States.
Organized crime is a category of transnational, national, or local groupings of highly centralized enterprises run by criminals who intend to engage in illegal activity, most commonly for money and profit. Some criminal organizations, such as terrorist groups, are politically motivated.
Oscar or OSCAR may refer to:
OMG may refer to:
}}
Observation is the active acquisition of information from a primary source. In living beings, observation employs the senses.
Oliver Conant (born November 15, 1955) is an American actor.
thumb|Oftel logo
OCR may refer to:
{|
Ossian (; Irish Gaelic/Scottish Gaelic: Oisean) is the narrator and purported author of a cycle of epic poems published by the Scottish poet James Macpherson from 1760. Macpherson claimed to have collected word-of-mouth material in Gaelic, said to be from ancient sources, and that the work was his translation of that material.
In mathematics an operand is the object of a mathematical operation, i.e.
An order of magnitude is an approximate measure of the size of a number, equal to the logarithm (base 10) rounded to a whole number. For example, the order of magnitude of 1500 is 3, because 1500 = 1.
Occam or Ockham may refer to:
occam is a concurrent programming language that builds on the communicating sequential processes (CSP) process algebra, INMOS document 72 occ 45 03 and shares many of its features. It is named after William of Ockham of Occam's Razor fame.
) 1917
Norse}}
An open cluster is a group of up to a few thousand stars that were formed from the same giant molecular cloud and have roughly the same age. More than 1,100 open clusters have been discovered within the Milky Way Galaxy, and many more are thought to exist.
Orimulsion is a registered trademark name for a bitumen-based fuel that was developed for industrial use by Intevep, the Research and Development Affiliate of Petroleos de Venezuela SA (PDVSA), following earlier collaboration on oil emulsions with BP.
thumb|250px|right|Edward de Vere, the 17th Earl of Oxford, is the most popular alternative candidate for the author behind the alleged pseudonym, Shakespeare. Unknown artist after lost original, 1575; [[National Portrait Gallery, London.
An oxymoron (usual plural oxymorons,  more rarely oxymora) is a rhetorical device that uses an ostensible self-contradiction to illustrate a rhetorical point or to reveal a paradox.
OSS may refer to:
}}
The organization of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was based on the principles of democratic centralism.
Oral history is the collection and study of historical information about individuals, families, important events, or everyday life using audiotapes, videotapes, or transcriptions of planned interviews. These interviews are conducted with people who participated in or observed past events and whose memories and perceptions of these are to be preserved as an aural record for future generations.
An oncogene is a gene that has the potential to cause cancer.Wilbur, Beth, editor.
Orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (OFDM) is a method of encoding digital data on multiple carrier frequencies. OFDM has developed into a popular scheme for wideband digital communication, used in applications such as digital television and audio broadcasting, DSL Internet access, wireless networks, powerline networks, and 4G mobile communications.
In programming, operator overloading, sometimes termed operator ad hoc polymorphism, is a specific case of polymorphism, where different operators have different implementations depending on their arguments. Operator overloading is generally defined by a programming language, a programmer, or both.
The Omphalos hypothesis is the pseudoscientific argument that God created the universe recently (within the past ten thousand years, in keeping with flood geology), but also introduced false evidence that the universe is of great age. It was named after the title of an 1857 book, Omphalos by Philip Henry Gosse, in which Gosse argued that in order for the world to be &quot;functional&quot;, God must have created the Earth with mountains and canyons, trees with growth rings, Adam and Eve with hair, fingernails, and navels (omphalos is Greek for &quot;navel&quot;), and that therefore no evidence that we can see of the presumed age of the Earth and universe can be taken as reliable.
Origen (; , Ōrigénēs), or Origen Adamantius (, Ōrigénēs Adamántios; 184/185 – 253/254),The New Catholic Encyclopedia (Detroit: Gale, 2003).  was a Greek scholar, ascetic, and early Christian theologian who was born and spent the first half of his career in Alexandria.
The Oliver Hazard Perry class is a class of guided missile frigates named after the American Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry, the hero of the naval Battle of Lake Erie. Also known as the Perry or FFG-7 class, the warships were designed in the United States in the mid-1970s as general-purpose escort vessels inexpensive enough to be bought in large quantities to replace World War II-era destroyers and complement 1960s-era s.
An orchestra ( or ; ) is a large instrumental ensemble typical of classical music, which mixes instruments from different families, including bowed string instruments such as violin, viola, cello and double bass, as well as brass, woodwinds, and percussion instruments, each grouped in sections. Other instruments such as the piano and celesta may sometimes appear in a fifth keyboard section or may stand alone, as may the concert harp and, for performances of some modern compositions, electronic instruments.
Database entry includes a brief justification of why this species is endangered.
The ovary (From , literally &quot;egg&quot; or &quot;nut&quot;)  is an ovum-producing reproductive organ, found in pairs in the female as part of the vertebrate female reproductive system. Birds have only one functional ovary (the left), while the other remains vestigial.
In computer science, an online algorithm is one that can process its input piece-by-piece in a serial fashion, i.e.
Origin, origins, or original may refer to:
Late Cretaceous – Recent
is a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests, commonly the anime and manga fandom. Its contemporary usage originated with Akio Nakamori's 1983 essay in Manga Burikko.
An object-modeling language is a standardized set of symbols used to model a software system using an object-oriented framework. The symbols can be either informal or formal ranging from predefined graphical templates to formal object models defined by grammars and specifications.
is a 1991 comedy anime spoofing the life and culture of otaku, individuals with obsessive interests in media, particularly anime and manga, as well as the history of Gainax, its creators.  It is noted for its mix of conventional documentary film styles (with actual film, no less), with a more traditional anime storytelling fashion.
Original sin, also called ancestral sin,Examples:
()
In software development, obfuscation is the deliberate act of creating obfuscated code, i.e.
3345 BCE
thumb|right|42 surrendered U-boats moored at [[Lisahally, Northern Ireland in June 1945]]
The Order of the Eastern Star is a Masonic appendant body open to both men and women. It was established in 1850 by lawyer and educator Rob Morris, a noted Freemason, but was only adopted and approved as an appendant body of the Masonic Fraternity in 1873.
The Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model) is a conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the communication functions of a telecommunication or computing system without regard to their underlying internal structure and technology. Its goal is the interoperability of diverse communication systems with standard protocols.
}}
This is a list of notable object-oriented programming languages, which are also listed in :Category:Object-oriented programming languages.
OOP, Oop, or oop  may refer to:
Occidental may refer to:
The language Occidental, later Interlingue, is a planned international auxiliary language created by the Balto-German naval officer and teacher Edgar de Wahl, and published in 1922. The vocabulary is based on already existing words from various languages.
Acer}}
The Orthodox Bahá'í Faith is a small Bahá'í sect that formed in 1960 by Mason Remey, and subsequently was the name used by Joel Marangella after he claimed to be Remey's successor. The basis of the dispute is over the identity of the Guardian, a term referring to the appointed head of the religion, an executive hereditary office held by Shoghi Effendi from 1921 to 1957.
Oxidative phosphorylation (or OXPHOS in short) is the metabolic pathway in which cells use enzymes to oxidize nutrients, thereby releasing energy which is used to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP). In most eukaryotes, this takes place inside mitochondria.
Old-fashioned}}
Omnipotence is the quality of having unlimited power. Monotheistic religions generally attribute omnipotence to only the deity of their faith.
Late Carboniferous – recent
Omniscience ,&quot; mainly in religion, is the capacity to know everything that there is to know. In particular, dharmic religions (Hinduism, Jainism, Buddhism and Sikhism) and the Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Christianity, and Islam) believe that there is a divine being who is omniscient.
The Original Chip Set (OCS) is a chipset used in the earliest Commodore Amiga computers and defined the Amiga's graphics and sound capabilities. It was succeeded by the slightly improved Enhanced Chip Set (ECS) and greatly improved Advanced Graphics Architecture (AGA).
}}
This is a list of organizations with INT domain names, in alphabetical order of the second-level domain name. The list is not comprehensive.
The OC-135B Open Skies United States Air Force observation aircraft supports the Treaty on Open Skies. The aircraft, a modified WC-135B, flies unarmed observation flights over participating parties of the treaty.
Limited overs cricket, also known as one-day cricket and in a slightly different context as List A cricket, is a version of the sport of cricket in which a match is generally completed in one day, whereas Test and first-class matches can take up to five days to complete.  The name reflects the rule that in the match each team bowls a set maximum number of overs, usually between 20 and 50, although shorter and longer forms of limited overs cricket have been played.
Omri (; fl. 9th century BC) was, according to the Bible, the sixth king of Israel.
An operational amplifier (often op-amp or opamp) is a DC-coupled high-gain electronic voltage amplifier with a differential input and, usually, a single-ended output.Maxim Application Note 1108: Understanding Single-Ended, Pseudo-Differential and Differential ADC Inputs – Retrieved November 10, 2007 In this configuration, an op-amp produces an output potential (relative to circuit ground) that is typically hundreds of thousands of times larger than the potential difference between its input terminals.
}}
Vom Kriege () is a book on war and military strategy by Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz (1780–1831), written mostly after the Napoleonic wars, between 1816 and 1830, and published posthumously by his wife Marie von Brühl in 1832.  It has been translated into English several times as On War.
right|thumb|The Dwarf – the statue of the Orange Alternative symbol at the corner of Świdnicka and Kazimierza Wielkiego streets in [[Wrocław.]]
Otto IV (1175  – May 19, 1218) was one of two rival kings of Germany from 1198 on, sole king from 1208 on, and Holy Roman Emperor from 1209 until he was forced to abdicate in 1215. The only German king of the Welf dynasty, he incurred the wrath of Pope Innocent III and was excommunicated in 1210.
Octavian may refer to:
File:Class in Sinenjeducational experience, each student should have achieved the goal. There is no single specified style of teaching or assessment in OBE; instead, classes, opportunities, and assessments should all help students achieve the specified outcomes.
Saint Olga (, born  890 AD, died 11 July 969 in Kiev) was a ruler of Kievan Rus' as regent (945 – c. 960) for her son, Svyatoslav.
Odobenidae is a family of pinnipeds. The only living species is the walrus.
An object database (also object-oriented database management system, OODBMS) is a database management system in which information is represented in the form of objects as used in object-oriented programming. Object databases are different from relational databases which are table-oriented.
An ovo-lacto vegetarian (or lacto-ovo vegetarian) is a vegetarian who does not eat meat, but does consume some animal products such as eggs and dairy. Unlike pescatarians, they do not consume fish or other seafood.
(Wide) (DVD)
The Ostwald process is a chemical process for making nitric acid (HNO3). Wilhelm Ostwald developed the process, and he patented it in 1902.
The Book of Omni is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. The book contains only one chapter although it covers more than two centuries of Nephite history (from ca 323 BC to 130 BC, according to footnotes).
The ozone layer or ozone shield is a region of Earth's stratosphere that absorbs most of the Sun's ultraviolet (UV) radiation. It contains high concentrations of ozone (O3) in relation to other parts of the atmosphere, although still small in relation to other gases in the stratosphere.
The Paleolithic (or &quot;Palaeolithic&quot;) age is a prehistoric period of human history distinguished by the development of the most primitive stone tools and covers roughly 95% of human technological prehistory. It extends from the earliest known use of stone tools, probably by Homo habilis initially, 2.
The Presidential Medal of Freedom is an award bestowed by the President of the United States and is—along with the
Psychology is the science of behavior and mind, embracing all aspects of conscious and unconscious experience as well as thought. It is an academic discipline and a social science which seeks to understand individuals and groups by establishing general principles and researching specific cases.
PhpWiki is a web-based wiki software application.
Poetry (the term derives from a variant of the Greek term, poiesis, &quot;making&quot;) is a form of literature  that uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language—such as phonaesthetics, sound symbolism, and metre—to evoke meanings in addition to, or in place of, the prosaic ostensible meaning.
Probability is the measure of the likelihood that an event will occur.&quot;Probability&quot;.
Performing arts are a form of art in which artists use their voices or bodies, often in relation to other objects, to convey artistic expression. It is different from visual arts, which is when artists use paint, canvas or various materials to create physical or static art objects.
Physics (from , from  phúsis &quot;nature&quot;, , ) is the natural science that involves the study of matterAt the start of The Feynman Lectures on Physics, Richard Feynman offers the atomic hypothesis as the single most prolific scientific concept: &quot;If, in some cataclysm, all [] scientific knowledge were to be destroyed [save] one sentence [...] what statement would contain the most information in the fewest words?
The following list of painters by name includes over 3,100 painters from all ages and parts of the world.
Poseidon (;}} ) was one of the Twelve Olympians] in [[Religion in ancient Greece|ancient Greek religion and myth. He was god of the Sea and other waters; of earthquakes; and of horses.
A population is all the organisms of the same group or species, which live in a particular geographical area, and have the capability of interbreeding.
Psychological egoism is the view that humans are always motivated by self-interest, even in what seem to be acts of altruism.  It claims that, when people choose to help others, they do so ultimately because of the personal benefits that they themselves expect to obtain, directly or indirectly, from doing so.
370 BC)
In probability theory, the sample space or event space or possibility space }} of an experiment or random trial is the set of all possible outcomes or results of that experiment. A sample space is usually denoted using set notation, and the possible ordered outcomes are listed as elements in the set.
In probability theory, an elementary event (also called an atomic event or simple event) is an event which contains only a single outcome in the sample space. Using set theory terminology, an elementary event is a singleton.
In probability theory, an event is a set of outcomes of an experiment (a subset of the sample space) to which a probability is assigned. A single outcome may be an element of many different events, and different events in an experiment are usually not equally likely, since they may include very different groups of outcomes.
Pig Latin is a language game or argot in which words in English are altered, usually by adding a fabricated suffix or by moving the onset or initial consonant or consonant cluster of a word to the end of the word and adding a vocalic syllable to create such a suffix. The objective is to conceal the words from others not familiar with the rules.
Pulp magazines (often referred to as &quot;the pulps&quot;) were inexpensive fiction magazines that were published from 1896 to the 1950s. The term pulp derives from the cheap wood pulp paper on which the magazines were printed.
A phoneme () is one of the units of sound (or gesture in the case of sign languages, see chereme) that distinguish one word from another in a particular language.  In most dialects of English, the difference in meaning between the words kill  and kiss  is a result of the substitution of one phoneme, , for another phoneme, .
In phonetics and linguistics, a phone is any distinct speech sound or gesture, regardless of whether the exact sound is critical to the meanings of words. In contrast, a phoneme is a speech sound that, in a given language, if it were swapped with another phoneme, would change the meaning of the word.
}}
}}
A Postmaster General, in many countries, is the chief executive officer of the postal service of that country, responsible for oversight over all other Postmasters. The practice of having a government official responsible for overseeing the delivery of mail throughout the nation originated in England, where a Master of the Posts is mentioned in the King's Book of Payments, with a payment of £100 being authorised for Tuke as master of the posts in February 1512.
}}
In mathematics, a polynomial is an expression consisting of variables (or indeterminates) and coefficients, that involves only the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and non-negative integer exponents of variables. An example of a polynomial of a single indeterminate  is .
thumb|175px|Appearance of real linear polymer chains as recorded using an [[atomic force microscope on a surface, under liquid medium. Chain contour length for this polymer is ~204 nm; thickness is ~0.
In economics and general equilibrium theory, a perfect market is defined by several conditions, collectively called perfect competition . These conditions are:
Philosophy of religion is, &quot;the philosophical examination of the central themes and concepts involved in religious traditions.&quot; It is an ancient discipline, being found in the earliest known manuscripts concerning philosophy, and relates to many other branches of philosophy, including metaphysics, epistemology, and ethics.
Precedence|President (disambiguation)President}}
Within some criminal justice systems, a preliminary hearing, preliminary examination, evidentiary hearing or probable cause hearing is a proceeding, after a criminal complaint has been filed by the prosecutor, to determine whether there is enough evidence to require a trial. In the United States, the judge must find that such evidence provides probable cause to believe that the crime was committed by the defendant.
Philosophical method (or philosophical methodology) is the study of how to do philosophy. A common view among philosophers is that philosophy is distinguished by the ways that philosophers follow in addressing philosophical questions.
Punch and Judy is a traditional, popular, and usually violent puppet show featuring Pulcinella (Mr. Punch) and his wife Judy.
Poker is a family of card games that combine gambling, strategy, and skill. All poker variants involve betting as an intrinsic part of play, and determine the winner of each hand according to the combinations of players' cards, at least some of which remain hidden until the end of the hand.
A programming language is a formal language that specifies a set of instructions that can be used to produce various kinds of output. Programming languages generally consist of instructions for a computer.
Telecommunications in Poland include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Poland involves air, water, road and rail transportation. The country has a large network of municipal public transport, such as buses, trams and the metro.
The Republic of Poland is a Central European country and member of the European Union and NATO, among others. In recent years, despite its occasional but obstinate relations with Russia during the 20th century, Poland has extended its responsibilities and position in European and Western affairs, supporting and establishing friendly foreign relations with both the West and with numerous European countries.
The Media of Poland consist of several different types of communications media including television, radio, cinema, newspapers, magazines, and Internet.  Many of the media are controlled by large for-profit corporations who reap revenue from advertising, subscriptions, and sale of copyrighted material.
The piano is an acoustic, stringed musical instrument invented in Italy by Bartolomeo Cristofori around the year 1700 (the exact year is uncertain), in which the strings are struck by hammers. It is played using a keyboard, which is a row of keys (small levers) that the performer presses down or strikes with the fingers and thumbs of both hands to cause the hammers to strike the strings.
In publishing, printers  are both companies providing printing services and individuals who directly operate printing presses.
Punk rock (or simply &quot;punk&quot;) is a rock music genre that developed in the early to mid-1970s in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia. Rooted in 1960s garage rock and other forms of what is now known as &quot;proto-punk&quot; music, punk rock bands rejected perceived excesses of mainstream 1970s rock.
thumb|right|[[Plato (left) and Aristotle (right), from a detail of The School of Athens, a fresco by Raphael. Plato's Republic and Aristotle's Politics secured the two Greek philosophers as two of the most influential political philosophers.
A republic is a type of government where the citizens choose the leaders of their country.
Placebo effect may refer to:
Pseudoscience consists of statements, beliefs, or practices that are claimed to be scientific and factual in the absence of evidence gathered and constrained by appropriate scientific methods.
Pascal or PASCAL may refer to:
The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number, electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. This ordering shows periodic trends, such as elements with similar behaviour in the same column.
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (from Neo-Latin [and atomic number] 19. It was first isolated from [[potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name derives.
In computing, the Post Office Protocol (POP) is an application-layer Internet standard protocol used by local e-mail clients to retrieve e-mail from a remote server over a TCP/IP connection. POP has been developed through several versions, with version 3 (POP3) being the last standard in common use before largely being made obsolete by the more advanced IMAP as well as webmail.
Punch § Periodicals}}
(The small protected by the great)
A playing card is a piece of specially prepared heavy paper, thin cardboard, plastic-coated paper, cotton-paper blend, or thin plastic, marked with distinguishing motifs and used as one of a set for playing card games. Playing cards are typically palm-sized for convenient handling, and were first invented in China during the Tang dynasty.
Paleontology or palaeontology (,  or , ) is the scientific study of life that existed prior to, and sometimes including, the start of the Holocene Epoch (roughly 11,700 years before present). It includes the study of fossils to determine organisms' evolution and interactions with each other and their environments (their paleoecology).
The plotter is a computer printer for printing vector graphics.  In the past, plotters were used in applications such as computer-aided design, though they have generally been replaced with wide-format conventional printers.
The following is a list of equipment used for a game of poker:
Ante or Antes may refer to:
thumb|right|The Joker is commonly used as a bug.
Card games, particularly poker games, may contain one or more cards designated as wild.  These may be jokers, or they may be normal ranked and suited cards pressed into wild card duty (&quot;deuces wild&quot; is a common variant).
In traditional poker games, the player with the best traditional hand wins the whole pot.  Lowball variations award the pot to the lowest hand, by any of several methods (see Low hand (poker)).
A kicker, also called a side card, is a card in a poker hand that does not itself take part in determining the rank of the hand, but that may be used to break ties between hands of the same rank.
Four of a kind may refer to:
300px|thumb|right|A standard Texas hold 'em game with the blinds
In poker, the showdown is a situation when, if more than one player remains after the last betting round, remaining players expose and compare their hands to determine the winner or winners.
A check-raise in poker is a common deceptive play in which a player checks early in a betting round, hoping someone else will open.  The player who checked then raises in the same round.
Twist is poker jargon for a round with specific rules which is sometimes used in the poker variant stud poker.
A stripped deck (US) or shortened pack (UK) is a set of playing cards from which some cards have been removed. The removed cards are usually the pip cards.
thumb|right|A Roll-your-own cigarette
Rollout or roll 'em out is poker jargon used for a game phase in certain poker variants. It is often incorrectly called &quot;roll your own&quot;, to which it has similarities but from which it is fundamentally different.
One player to a hand is an important poker rule designed to promote fair play that is universally applied in casino play.  It states that all game decisions about the play of each hand must be made by one player without any assistance.
Cards speak (&quot;for themselves&quot;), also known as &quot;cards read&quot; is used in two poker contexts:
There are several actions in poker called declaration, in which a player formally expresses his intent to take some action (which he may perform at a later point).
In the game of poker, a betting round is said to be closed if no player will have the right to raise in the round.  Normally this occurs when a player calls, and the next player whose turn it is to act is the one who made the last raise, so he cannot raise further (this ends the betting round).
In poker, the strength of a hand (how likely it is to be the best according to the rules of the game being played) is often called its value; however, in the context of poker strategy the term is more often used to describe a betting tactic, a bet for value.  This bet (or raise) is intended to increase the size of the pot, by inducing opponents to call.
In poker, the nut hand is the strongest possible hand in a given situation. The second-nut hand or third-nut hand (and so on) may refer to the second and third best possible hands.
Protection in poker is a bet made with a strong but vulnerable hand, such as top pair when straight or flush draws are possible. The bet forces opponents with draws to either call with insufficient pot odds, or to fold, both of which are profitable for the betting player.
A poker player is drawing if they have a hand that is incomplete and needs further cards to become valuable. The hand itself is called a draw or drawing hand.
In a poker game with more than one betting round, an out is  any unseen card that, if drawn, will improve a player's hand to one that is likely to win. Knowing the number of outs a player has is an important part of poker strategy.
In poker, pot odds are the ratio of the current size of the pot to the cost of a contemplated call.Sklansky, 1987, Glossary Pot odds are often compared to the probability of winning a hand with a future card in order to estimate the call's expected value.
Position in poker refers to the order in which players are seated around the table and the related poker strategy implications. Players who act first are in &quot;early position&quot;; players who act later are in &quot;late position&quot;; players who act in between are in &quot;middle position&quot;.
In poker, a steal is a type of a bluff, a raise during the first betting round made with an inferior hand and meant to make other players fold superior hands because of shown strength. A steal is normally either an &quot;ante steal&quot; or &quot;blind steal&quot; (depending on whether the game being played uses antes or blinds).
In poker, dead money is the amount of money in the pot other than the equal amounts bet by active remaining players in that pot. Examples of dead money include money contributed to the pot by players who have folded, a dead blind posted by a player returning to a game after missing blinds, or an odd chip left in the pot from a previous deal.
In poker, an isolation play is usually a raise designed to encourage one or more players to fold, specifically for the purpose of making the hand a one-on-one contest with a specific opponent. For example, if an opponent raises and a player suspects he is holding a weak, but playable hand, they may reraise to pressure other opponents to fold, with the aim of getting heads up with the opening raiser.
In poker, a freeroll has two distinct meanings. One applies to the play of a single hand, and the other describes an entire poker tournament.
In poker, the starting hand is the initial set of cards dealt to each player before any voluntary betting takes place. For example, in seven-card stud this is two downcards and one upcard; in Texas hold 'em it is two downcards; in five-card draw it is five cards.
Omaha hold 'em (also known as Omaha holdem or simply Omaha) is a community card poker game similar to Texas hold 'em, where each player is dealt four cards and must make his or her best hand using exactly two of them, plus exactly three of the five community cards. The exact origin of the game is unknown, but casino executive Robert Turner first brought Omaha into a casino setting  when he introduced the game to Bill Boyd, who offered it as a game at the Las Vegas Golden Nugget Casino (calling it &quot;Nugget Hold'em&quot;).
In the game of poker, opens and raises are considered aggressive plays, while calls and checks are considered passive (though a check-raise would be considered a very aggressive play). It is said that &quot;aggression has its own value&quot;, meaning that often aggressive plays can make money with weak hands because of bluff value.
Shuffling is a procedure used to randomize a deck of playing cards to provide an element of chance in card games. Shuffling is often followed by a cut, to help ensure that the shuffler has not manipulated the outcome.
In many card games, to cut the cards (or to cut the deck) is a procedure used just prior to the cards being dealt to the players.
Philology is the study of language in written historical sources; it is a combination of literary criticism, history, and linguistics. It is more commonly defined as the study of literary texts and written records, the establishment of their authenticity and their original form, and the determination of their meaning.
Phonetics (pronounced , from the {{lang-el|[phōnē, 'sound, voice') is a branch of linguistics] that comprises the study of the [[sounds of human speech, or—in the case of sign languages—the equivalent aspects of sign.O'Grady (2005) p.
Petroleum (from ) is a naturally occurring, yellow-to-black liquid found in geological formations beneath the Earth's surface. It is commonly refined into various types of fuels.
In metaphysics, particulars are defined as concrete, spatiotemporal entities as opposed to abstract entities, such as properties or numbers. There are, however, theories of abstract particulars or tropes.
Poultry () are domesticated birds kept by humans for their eggs, their meat or their feathers. These birds are most typically members of the superorder Galloanserae (fowl), especially the order Galliformes (which includes chickens, quails and turkeys).
Propaganda is information that is not objective and is used primarily to influence an audience and further an agenda, often by presenting facts selectively to encourage a particular synthesis or perception, or using loaded language to produce an emotional rather than a rational response to the information that is presented. Propaganda is often associated with material prepared by governments, but activist groups, companies and the media can also produce propaganda.
}}
A physical constant, sometimes fundamental physical constant, is a physical quantity that is generally believed to be both universal in nature and having constant value in time. It is contrasted with a mathematical constant, which has a fixed numerical value, but does not directly involve any physical measurement.
Parsley or garden parsley (Petroselinum crispum) is a species of flowering plant in the family Apiaceae, native to the central Mediterranean region (southern Italy, Greece, Portugal, Spain, Malta, Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia), naturalized elsewhere in Europe, and widely cultivated as a herb, a spice, and a vegetable.
Peppermint (Mentha × piperita, also known as Mentha balsamea Willd.) is a hybrid mint, a cross between watermint and spearmint.
}}
The term political correctness (adjectivally: politically correct; commonly abbreviated to PC or P.C.
Ploidy is the number of sets of chromosomes in a cell, and hence the number of possible alleles for autosomal and pseudoautosomal genes.
The Pennsylvanian (also known as Upper Carboniferous or Late Carboniferous) is in the ICS geologic timescale, the younger of two subperiods (or upper of two subsystems) of the Carboniferous Period. It lasted from roughly  Ma (million years ago).
in early Permian; plummeting during the middle Permian to a constant  in the late Permian.
, genitive
In mathematics, a parabola is a plane curve, which is mirror-symmetrical, and is approximately U-shaped when oriented as shown in the diagram below (it remains a parabola if is differently oriented). It fits any of several superficially different mathematical descriptions, which can all be proved to define exactly the same curves.
In the field of epistemology, the problem of the criterion is an issue regarding the starting point of knowledge. This is a separate and more fundamental issue than the regress argument found in discussions on justification of knowledge.
The Paleozoic (or Palaeozoic) Era (;}}}} from the Greek palaios (παλαιός), &quot;old&quot; and zoe (ζωή), &quot;life&quot;, meaning &quot;ancient life&quot;) is the earliest of three geologic eras of the Phanerozoic Eon. It is the longest of the Phanerozoic eras, lasting from , and is subdivided into six geologic periods (from oldest to youngest): the Cambrian, Ordovician, Silurian, Devonian, Carboniferous, and Permian.
}}|italics=off}}}}
0.47% (2009 est.
The politics of the People's Republic of China takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential socialist republic run by a single party, the Communist Party of China. State power within the People's Republic of China (PRC) is exercised through the Communist Party, the Central People's Government and their provincial and local representation.
The People's Republic of China possesses a diversified communications system that links all parts of the country by Internet, telephone, telegraph, radio, and television. The country is served by an extensive system of automatic telephone exchanges connected by modern networks of fiber-optic cable, coaxial cable, microwave radio relay, and a domestic satellite system; cellular telephone service is widely available, expanding rapidly, and includes roaming service to foreign countries.
Transport in China has experienced major growth and expansion in recent years. Although China's transport system comprises a vast network of transport nodes across its huge territory, the nodes tend to concentrate in the more economically developed coastal areas and inland cities along major rivers.
The foreign relations of the People's Republic of China (PRC), commonly known as to most states as China, are the relations between the People's Republic of China and other countries. It guides the way in which it interacts with foreign nations and expresses its political, economic and cultural strengths, weaknesses  and values.
Phonology is a branch of linguistics concerned with the systematic organization of sounds in languages. It has traditionally focused largely on the study of the systems of phonemes in particular languages (and therefore used to be also called phonemics, or phonematics), but it may also cover any linguistic analysis either at a level beneath the word (including syllable, onset and rime, articulatory gestures, articulatory features, mora, etc.
Prometheus ( ;  , meaning &quot;forethought&quot;)Smith, &quot;Prometheus&quot;. is a Titan in Greek mythology, best known as the deity in Greek mythology who was the creator of humanity and its greatest benefactor, who stole fire from Mount Olympus and gave it to humankind.
Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an inborn error of metabolism that results in decreased metabolism of the amino acid phenylalanine. Untreated PKU can lead to intellectual disability, seizures, behavioral problems, and mental disorders.
Parallax is a displacement or difference in the apparent position of an object viewed along two different lines of sight, and is measured by the angle or semi-angle of inclination between those two lines. The term is derived from the Greek word παράλλαξις (parallaxis), meaning &quot;alternation&quot;.
Particle physics (also high energy physics) is the branch of physics that studies the nature of the particles that constitute matter and radiation. Although the word &quot;particle&quot; can refer to various types of very small objects (e.
thumb|right|The world's largest peninsula, the [[Arabian Peninsula]]
PCM or pulse-code modulation is a digital representation of an analog signal.
thumb|300px|True-color image of the Earth's surface and atmosphere. NASA [[Goddard Space Flight Center image.
In geography, a plain is a flat, sweeping landmass that generally does not change much in elevation. Plains occur as lowlands along the bottoms of valleys or on the doorsteps of mountains, as coastal plains, and as plateaus or uplands.
, al-Filasṭīniyyūn)
A physicist is a scientist who has specialized knowledge in the field of physics, the exploration of the interactions of matter and energy across the physical universe.
Pipe usually refers to:
Peter Nilson (17 October 1937 – 8 March 1998) was a Swedish astronomer and novelist.  Active at Uppsala University, he compiled a catalogue of galaxies.
A patent ( or ) is a set of exclusive rights granted by a sovereign state to an inventor or assignee for a limited period of time in exchange for detailed public disclosure of an invention.  An invention is a solution to a specific technological problem and is a product or a process.
A philosopher is someone who practices philosophy, which involves rational inquiry into areas that are outside either theology or science. The term &quot;philosopher&quot; comes from the Ancient Greek  (philosophos) meaning &quot;lover of wisdom&quot;.
The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch is a 1965 science fiction novel by US writer Philip K. Dick.
thumb|right|150px|Cover of 1977 Belmont paperback edition.
A Scanner Darkly is a  science fiction novel by American writer Philip K. Dick, published in 1977.
Ubik ( ) is a 1969 science fiction novel by American writer Philip K. Dick.
Radio Free Albemuth is a dystopian novel by Philip K. Dick, written in 1976 and published posthumously in 1985.
A passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder primarily for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports may contain information such as the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information.
A point of view shot (also known as POV shot, First-person shot or a subjective camera) is a short film scene that shows what a character (the subject) is looking at (represented through the camera). It is usually established by being positioned between a shot of a character looking at something, and a shot showing the character's reaction (see shot reverse shot).
Persistence of vision refers to the optical illusion that occurs when visual perception of an object does not cease for some time after the rays of light proceeding from it have ceased to enter the eye.https://books.
A propaganda film is a film that involves some form of propaganda. Propaganda films may be packaged in numerous ways, but are most often documentary-style productions or fictional screenplays, that are produced to convince the viewer of a specific political point or influence the opinions or behavior of the viewer, often by providing subjective content that may be deliberately misleading.
The Pliocene (;}}}} also Pleiocene}}) Epoch is the epoch in the geologic timescale that extends from 5.333 million to 2.
Pharaoh (, Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Eleventh Edition. Merriam-Webster, 2007.
A printing press is a device for applying pressure to an inked surface resting upon a print medium (such as paper or cloth), thereby transferring the ink. Typically used for texts, the invention and spread of the printing press was one of the most influential events in the second millennium.
Proportional representation (PR) characterizes electoral systems by which divisions in an electorate are reflected proportionately in the elected body.  If n% of the electorate support a particular political party, then roughly n% of seats will be won by that party.
(first document posted)
A personal area network (PAN) is a computer network used for data transmission amongst devices such as computers, telephones, tablets and personal digital assistants. PANs can be used for communication amongst the personal devices themselves (interpersonal communication), or for connecting to a higher level network and the Internet (an uplink) where one &quot;master&quot; device takes up the role as internet router.
thumb|The [[Palm TX]]
The Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX) is a family of standards specified by the IEEE Computer Society for maintaining compatibility between operating systems. POSIX defines the application programming interface (API), along with command line shells and utility interfaces, for software compatibility with variants of Unix and other operating systems.
The Personal Telco Project (or PTP) is a wireless community network project in Portland, Oregon. It was founded by Adam Shand in November 2000 after he read a Slashdot article about the Consume The Net project in London.
Paul Vixie is an American computer scientist whose technical contributions include Domain Name System (DNS) protocol design and procedure, mechanisms to achieve operational robustness of DNS implementations, and significant contributions to open source software principles and methodology. He also created and launched the first successful commercial anti-spam service.
The Pleistocene (, often colloquially referred to as the Ice Age) is the geological epoch which lasted from about 2,588,000 to 11,700 years ago, spanning the world's most recent period of repeated glaciations. The end of the Pleistocene corresponds with the end of the last glacial period and also with the end of the Paleolithic age used in archaeology.
Pasteurization or pasteurisationThe Oxford English Dictionary; Oxford University Press 1981 is a process that kills microbes (mainly bacteria) in food and drink, such as milk, juice, canned food, and others.
Ahmed Muhiddin Piri (1465/70–1553http://dergiler.ankara.
LB}}
, ,
Phosphorus is a chemical element with symbol P and atomic number 15. As an element, phosphorus exists in two major forms—white phosphorus and red phosphorus—but because it is highly reactive, phosphorus is never found as a free element on Earth.
Palladium is a chemical element with symbol Pd and atomic number 46. It is a rare and lustrous silvery-white metal discovered in 1803 by William Hyde Wollaston.
Promethium (formerly prometheum) is a chemical element with symbol Pm and atomic number 61. All of its isotopes are radioactive; it is one of only two such elements that are followed in the periodic table by elements with stable forms, a distinction shared with technetium.
Protactinium (formerly protoactinium) is a chemical element with symbol Pa and atomic number 91. It is a dense, silvery-gray metal which readily reacts with oxygen, water vapor and inorganic acids.
Platinum is a chemical element with symbol Pt and atomic number 78. It is a dense, malleable, ductile, highly unreactive, precious, gray-white transition metal.
Polonium is a chemical element with symbol Po and atomic number 84. A rare and highly radioactive metal with no stable isotopes, polonium is chemically similar to selenium and tellurium, though its metallic character resembles that of its horizontal neighbors in the periodic table: thallium, lead, and bismuth.
(series).  (volume).
Quaker State
In textual studies, a palimpsest () is a manuscript page, either from a scroll or a book, from which the text has been scraped or washed off so that the page can be reused for another document. Pergamene (now known as parchment) was made of baby lamb or kid skin (best made in ancient Pergamon) and was expensive and not readily available, so in the interest of economy a pergamene often was re-used by scraping the previous writing.
   ~31 petametres
right|thumb|Central European (Northern) type of finished parchment made of [[goatskin (material)|goatskin stretched on a wooden frame]]
A phobia is a type of anxiety disorder, defined by a persistent fear of an object or situation. The phobia typically results in a rapid onset of fear and is present for more than six months.
Pagani}}
P (named pee &quot;P&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;pee,&quot; op. cit.
Page most commonly refers to:
Pokey the Penguin is an online comic strip created in 1998. It chronicles the adventures of a penguin named Pokey and a large cast of other characters.
Post-communism is the period of political and economic transformation or &quot;transition&quot; in former communist states located in parts of Europe and Asia, in which new governments aimed to create free market-oriented capitalist economies.
Pytheas of Massalia (Ancient Greek: Πυθέας ὁ Μασσαλιώτης Pythéas ho Massaliōtes; Latin: Pytheas Massiliensis; fl. 4th century BC), was a Greek geographer and explorer from the Greek colony of Massalia (modern-day Marseille).
Polygonales was an order of flowering plants recognized by several older systems such as the Wettstein system, last revised in 1935, the Engler system, in its update of 1964, and the Cronquist system, 1981. Its circumscription was typically:
The Polygonaceae are a family of flowering plants known informally as the knotweed family or smartweed—buckwheat family in the United States. The name is based on the genus Polygonum, and was first used by Antoine Laurent de Jussieu in 1789 in his book, Genera Plantarum.
The history of Pakistan (}}) encompasses the history of the Indus Valley region constituting modern-day Pakistan. For over three millennia, the region has witnessed human activity - the ancient history of the region includes one of earliest human settlements of the world (Riwat); and one of the world's major civilizations, the Indus Valley Civilisation.
Afghanistan: China: India: Line of Control: Iran:
The politics of Pakistan takes place within the framework established by the constitution. The country is a federal parliamentary republic in which provincial governments enjoy a high degree of autonomy and residuary powers.
Telecommunications in Pakistan describes the overall environment for the growing mobile telecommunications, telephone, and Internet markets in Pakistan.
Transport in Pakistan (}}) is extensive and varied, and serves a population of over 191 million people. In recent years, new national highways have been built, with the addition of motorways which have improved trade and logistics within the country.
The Pakistan Armed Forces (}}, Musallah Afwaj-e-Pakistan) are the military forces of Pakistan. They are the sixth largest in the world in terms of active military personnel and the largest among Muslim countries.
Pakistan is the second largest Muslim-majority country in terms of population (after Indonesiahttp://www.pewresearch.
}}
250px|thumb|right
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Palau, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Palau takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, where by the President of Palau is both head of state and head of government, and Palau currently has no political parties. It is a de facto non-partisan democracy since no law prevents the formation of political parties.
thumb|right|250px|[[Rock Islands (Palau)|Rock Islands in Palau - Such scenery has helped invite tourism and build up Palau's economy. ]]
Telephones - main lines in use:
The History of Panama is about the Isthmus of Panama region's long history that occurred in  Central America, from Pre-Columbian cultures, during the Spanish colonial era,  through independence and the current country of Panama.
Panama is a country located in the Central America region of North America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean, between Colombia and Costa Rica. Panama is located on the narrow and low Isthmus of Panama.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Panama, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Panama take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic with multi-party system, whereby the President of Panama is both head of state and head of government.
$44.69 billion (2014 est.
Transport in Panama is fairly well developed. The majority of the trips are done by car while a great part in public transport.
Panama's foreign relations are conventional in outlook, with Panama being especially aligned with United States since the 1989 US invasion to topple the regime of General Manuel Noriega. The United States cooperates with the Panamanian government in promoting economic, political, security, and social development through U.
The prehistory of Papua New Guinea can be traced back to about 60,000 years ago when people first migrated towards the Australian continent. The written history began when European navigators first sighted New Guinea in the early part of the 16th century.
right|300px|Map of Papua New Guinea
The indigenous population of Papua New Guinea is one of the most heterogeneous in the world. Papua New Guinea has several thousand separate communities, most with only a few hundred people.
The politics of Papua New Guinea takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic multi-party system, whereby the Prime Minister is the head of government. Papua New Guinea is an independent Commonwealth realm, with a governor-general, nominated by the National Parliament, acting as head of state.
This article is about Communications in Papua New Guinea including newspapers, radio, television, and the Internet.
Transport in Papua New Guinea is in many cases heavily limited by the mountainous terrain.  The capital, Port Moresby, is not linked by road to any of the other major towns and many highland villages can only be reached by light aircraft or on foot.
The history of Paraguay is a result of development and interaction of varying cultures of indigenous peoples in Paraguay and overseas immigrants who together have created the modern-day Paraguay. Paraguay celebrates Independence Day on May 14, from 1811 to now.
right|thumb|Map of Paraguay
Politics of Paraguay takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic (
$58.3 billion PPP (2014 est.
Telecommunications in Paraguay are meager. Paraguay has the lowest fixed-line telephone density in South America, with 5.
Paraguay’s transportation system ranges from adequate to poor, largely depending on the region of the country. The country has a network of roads, railroads, rivers, and airports, but significant infrastructure and regulation improvements are needed.
Paraguayan foreign policy has concentrated on maintaining good relations with its neighbors, and it has been an active proponent of regional co-operation. It is a member of the United Nations and has served one term in the UN Security Council in 1967-1969 .
The history of Peru spans 4 millennia, extending back through several stages of cultural development in the mountain region and the coastal desert. About 15,200 years ago, groups of people are believed to have crossed the Bering Strait from Asia and survived as nomads, hunting, gathering fruits and vegetables and fishing in the sea, rivers, and lakes.
The politics of the Republic of Peru takes place in a framework of a unitary semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Peru is both head of state and head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government.
$429.7 billion (PPP, 2017, est.
Telecommunications in Peru include radio and television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
The transport in Peru.
Peru is an important second-tier state in South America,Schenoni, Luis (2017) &quot;Subsystemic Unipolarities?&quot; in Strategic Analysis, 41(1): 74-86 Peru has been a member of the United Nations] since 1949, and Peruvian [[Javier Pérez de Cuéllar served as UN Secretary General from 1981 to 1991.
In the recognized optional languages of the Philippines:
The history of the Philippines is believed to have begun with the arrival of the first humans using rafts or boats at least 67,000 years ago as the 2007 discovery of Callao Man suggested. Negrito groups first inhabited the isles.
}}  census)}}
Elections are administered by an independent Commission on Elections every three years starting 1992. Held every second Monday of May, the winners in the elections take office on the following June 30.
(PPP) $878.980 billion (2017 est.
Telecommunications in the Philippines are well-developed due to the presence of modern infrastructure facilities. The industry was deregulated in 1995, leading to the creation of many telecommunication service providers for mobile, fixed-line, Internet and other services.
Transportation in the Philippines is relatively underdeveloped, partly due to the country's mountainous areas and scattered islands, and partly as a result of the government's persistent underinvestment in the nation's infrastructure. In recent years, however, the Philippine government has been pushing to improve the transportation system in the country through various infrastructure projects.
Foreign relations of the Philippines are administered by the President of the Philippines and the Department of Foreign Affairs. Philippine international affairs are influenced by ties to Southeast Asian neighbors, United States, and the Middle East.
The Pitcairn Islands consist of four islands: Pitcairn Island, Oeno Island, Henderson Island and Ducie Island:
Politics of the Pitcairn Islands takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic dependency, whereby the Mayor is the head of government. The territory's constitution is the Local Government Ordinance of 1964.
The population of Puerto Rico has been shaped by Amerindian settlement, European colonization especially under the Spanish Empire, slavery and economic migration.  This article is about the demographic features of the population of Puerto Rico, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Puerto Rico take place in the framework of a republican democratic form of government that is under the jurisdiction and sovereignty of the United States as an organized unincorporated territory.
Telecommunications in Puerto Rico includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
}}
The military defense of Puerto Rico is the responsibility of the United States as part of the Treaty of Paris. Locally, Puerto Rico has its own National Guard, the Puerto Rico National Guard, and its own state defense force, the Puerto Rico State Guard, which, by local law, is under the authority of the Puerto Rico National Guard.
In geometry, a polyhedron (plural polyhedra or polyhedrons) is a solid in three dimensions with flat polygonal faces, straight edges and sharp corners or vertices. The word polyhedron comes from the Classical Greek πολύεδρον, as poly- (stem of πολύς, &quot;many&quot;) + -hedron (form of ἕδρα, &quot;base&quot; or &quot;seat&quot;).
In elementary geometry, a polytope is a geometric object with &quot;flat&quot; sides. It is a generalisation in any number of dimensions, of the three-dimensional polyhedron.
Paper-and-pencil games are games that can be played solely with paper and pencil (or other writing implement), usually without erasing.
Paleomaps are maps of continents and mountain ranges in the past based on plate reconstructions.  Until the 1960s, paleomaps were not very satisfactory, since it was difficult to understand many quite distinctive features.
In metaphysics, the problem of universals refers to the question of whether properties exist, and if so, what they are.  Properties are qualities or relations that two or more entities have in common.
Pipeline may refer to:
The plea bargain (also plea agreement, plea deal, copping a plea, or plea in mitigation) is any agreement in a criminal case between the prosecutor  and defendant whereby the defendant agrees to plead guilty to a particular charge in return for some concession from the prosecutor. This may mean that the defendant will plead guilty to a less serious charge, or to one of the several charges, in return for the dismissal of other charges; or it may mean that the defendant will plead guilty to the original criminal charge in return for a more lenient sentence.
A protest song is a song that is associated with a movement for social change and hence part of the broader category of topical songs (or songs connected to current events). It may be folk, classical, or commercial in genre.
In philosophy, physicalism is the ontological thesis that &quot;everything is physical&quot;, that there is &quot;nothing over and above&quot; the physical,See Smart, 1959 or that everything supervenes on the physical. Physicalism is a form of ontological monism—a &quot;one substance&quot; view of the nature of reality as opposed to a &quot;two-substance&quot; (dualism) or &quot;many-substance&quot; (pluralism) view.
Parallelism may refer to:
The philosophy of perception is concerned with the nature of perceptual experience and the status of perceptual data, in particular how they relate to beliefs about, or knowledge of, the world.cf.
In the philosophy of language a proper name, for example the names of persons or places, is a name which is ordinarily taken to uniquely identify its referent in the world. As such it presents particular challenges for theories of meaning and it has become a central problem in analytical philosophy.
Prolog is a general-purpose logic programming language associated with artificial intelligence and computational linguistics.
A political spectrum is a system of classifying different political positions upon one or more geometric axes that symbolize independent political dimensions.
thumb|right|300px|A pregnant [[lioness.]]
-
(D)
}}
In computer networking, Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) is a data link layer (layer 2) communications protocol used to establish a direct connection between two nodes. It connects two routers directly without any host or any other networking device in between.
The Patterson–Gimlin film (also known as the Patterson film or the PGF) is a famous American short motion picture of an unidentified subject which the filmmakers have said was a Bigfoot. The footage was shot in 1967 in Northern California, and has since been subjected to many attempts to authenticate or debunk it.
Producer or producers may refer to:
List of poets who have written much of their poetry in the Polish language. See also Discussion Page for additional poets not listed here.
Ambroise Paul Toussaint Jules Valéry (;&quot;Valéry&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
A pianist ( ,  ) is an individual musician who plays the piano. Most forms of Western music can make use of the piano.
A proverb (from ) is a simple and concrete saying, popularly known and repeated, that expresses a truth based on common sense or experience. They are often metaphorical.
The portability of social security benefits is the ability of workers to preserve, maintain, and transfer acquired social security rights and social security rights in the process of being acquired  from one private, occupational, or public social security scheme to another.*Cruz, Armando (2004).
}}
}}
In Kolmogorov's probability theory, the probability P of some event E, denoted P(E), is usually defined such that P satisfies the Kolmogorov axioms, named after the Russian mathematician Andrey Kolmogorov, which are described below.
Probability theory is the branch of mathematics concerned with probability. Although there are several different probability interpretations, probability theory treats the concept in a rigorous mathematical manner by expressing it through a set of axioms.
Distribution}}
Psychological statistics is the application of formulas, theorems, numbers and laws to psychology. Some of the more common applications include:
; ; ; }}
,
Late Cretaceous to Recent
Asimina is a genus of small trees or shrubs described as a genus in 1763.Adanson, Michel.
Pentecostalism or Classical Pentecostalism is a renewal movement&quot;Spirit and Power: A 10-Country Survey of Pentecostals&quot;, Executive Summary. The Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life.
Pangenesis was Charles Darwin's hypothetical mechanism for heredity. He presented this 'provisional hypothesis' in his 1868 work The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication and felt that it brought 'together a multitude of facts which are at present left disconnected by any efficient cause'.
Paleocene-Holocene
thumb|right|250px|A set of Chinese dominoes. The top double-row of tiles lists the eleven matching pairs, in descending value from left to right.
right|thumb|250px|The [[Hasse diagram of the set of all subsets of a three-element set {x, y, z}, ordered by inclusion. Sets on the same horizontal level are incomparable with each other.
Psyche (Psyché in French) is the Greek term for &quot;soul&quot; or &quot;spirit&quot; (ψυχή).
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences|website=collections.naturalsciences.
In mathematics, a partial function from X to Y (written as ) is a function , for some subset X ′ of X. It generalizes the concept of a function  by not forcing f to map every element of X to an element of Y (only some subset X ′ of X).
The photoelectric effect is the emission of electrons or other free carriers when light is shone onto a material. Electrons emitted in this manner can be called photo electrons.
The Paleogene ( or ; also spelled Palaeogene or Palæogene; informally Lower Tertiary) is a geologic period and system that spans 43 million years from the end of the Cretaceous Period  million years ago (Mya) to the beginning of the Neogene Period  Mya. It is the beginning of the Cenozoic Era of the present Phanerozoic Eon.
In mathematics, especially in order theory, a preorder or quasiorder is a binary relation that is reflexive and transitive. Preorders are more general than equivalence relations and (non-strict) partial orders, both of which are special cases of a preorder.
Peking or Beijing is the capital city of the People's Republic of China.
The Parable of the Pearl (also called the Pearl of Great Price) is one of the parables of Jesus. It appears in  and illustrates the great value of the Kingdom of Heaven.
Pantheism is the belief that all reality is identical with divinity, or that everything composes an all-encompassing, immanent god. Pantheists do not believe in a distinct personal or anthropomorphic godA Companion to Philosophy of Religion edited by Charles Taliaferro, Paul Draper, Philip L.
Panentheism (from the Ancient Greek expression πᾶν ἐν θεῷ, pān en theṓ, literally “all in God”The Buddhist Zen master Soyen Shaku (see below) proposed another, equally plausible interpretation of the term, deriving it from the expression πᾶν καὶ ἕν (pân kai hen), meaning “all and one”.) is the belief that the divine pervades and [every part of the universe] and also extends beyond time and space.
Paraphilia (previously known as sexual perversion and sexual deviation)  is the experience of intense sexual arousal to atypical objects, situations, fantasies, behaviors, or individuals. Such attraction may be labeled sexual fetishism.
Pediatrics (also spelled paediatrics or pædiatrics) is the branch of medicine that involves the medical care of infants, children, and adolescents. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends people be under pediatric care up to the age of 21.
Physiology (; ) is the scientific study of normal mechanisms, and their interactions, which works within a living system. A sub-discipline of biology, its focus is in how organisms, organ systems, organs, cells, and biomolecules carry out the chemical or physical functions that exist in a living system.
The number  () is a mathematical constant, the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter.  It is approximately equal to 3.
Postmodernism describes a broad movement that developed in the mid- to late 20th century across philosophy, the arts, architecture and criticism which marked a departure from modernism.Ruth Reichl, Cook's November 1989; American Heritage Dictionary's definition of &quot;postmodern&quot; While encompassing a broad range of ideas, postmodernism is typically defined by an attitude of skepticism, irony or rejection toward grand narratives, ideologies and various tenets of universalism, including objective notions of reason, human nature, social progress, moral universalism, absolute truth, and objective reality.
Photography is the science, art, application and practice of creating durable images by recording light or other electromagnetic radiation, either electronically by means of an image sensor, or chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as photographic film.
The Pentateuch is the first part of the Bible, consisting of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy.
Postmodern philosophy is a philosophical direction which is critical of certain foundational assumptions of Western philosophy and especially of the 18th-century Enlightenment. It emphasizes the importance of power relationships, personalization and discourse in the &quot;construction&quot; of truth and world views.
Postmodern music is either simply music of the postmodern era, or music that follows aesthetical and philosophical trends of postmodernism. As the name suggests, the postmodernist movement formed partly in reaction to modernism.
Protocol may refer to:
thumb|right|A small, electrically powered pump
Progressive may refer to:
Pressure (symbol: p or P) is the force applied perpendicular to the surface of an object per unit area over which that force is distributed. Gauge pressure (also spelled gage pressure)The preferred spelling varies by country and even by industry.
In elementary geometry, a polygon () is a plane figure that is bounded by a finite chain of straight line segments closing in a loop to form a closed polygonal chain or circuit. These segments are called its  edges or sides, and the points where two edges meet are the polygon's vertices (singular: vertex) or corners.
A player character (also known as PC and playable character) is a fictional character in a role-playing or video game whose actions are directly controlled by a player of the game rather than the rules of the game. The characters that are not controlled by a player are called non-player characters (NPCs).
A parish is a church territorial unit constituting a division within a diocese. A parish is under the pastoral care and clerical jurisdiction of a parish priest, who might be assisted by one or more curates, and who operates from a parish church.
AD 500
In the abstract, property is that which belongs to or with something, whether as an attribute or as a component of said thing. In the context of this article, property is one or more components (rather than attributes), whether physical or incorporeal, of a person's estate; or so belonging to, as in being owned by, a person or jointly a group of people or a legal entity like a corporation or even a society.
A police force is a constituted body of persons empowered by the state to enforce the law, protect property, and limit civil disorder. Their powers include the legitimized use of force.
The PDP-10 is a discontinued mainframe computer familyCeruzzi, p. 208, &quot;It was large—even DEC's own literature called [the PDP-10] a mainframe.
The DECSYSTEM-20 was a 36-bit Digital Equipment Corporation PDP-10 mainframe computer running the TOPS-20 operating system (products introduced in 1977).
Programmed Data Processor (PDP) is a series of minicomputers made and marketed by the Digital Equipment Corporation from 1957 to 1990. The name &quot;PDP&quot; intentionally avoids the use of the term &quot;computer&quot; because, at the time of the first PDPs, computers had a reputation of being large, complicated, and expensive machines, and the venture capitalists behind Digital (especially Georges Doriot) would not support Digital's attempting to build a &quot;computer&quot;; the word &quot;minicomputer&quot; had not yet been coined.
thumb|right|The largest non-segmented mirror in an optical telescope in 2009, one of the Large Binocular Telescope's two mirrors
}}
Following is a list of physicists who are notable for their achievements.
Proteins ( or ) are large biomolecules, or macromolecules, consisting of one or more long chains of amino acid residues. Proteins perform a vast array of functions within organisms, including catalysing metabolic reactions, DNA replication, responding to stimuli, and transporting molecules from one location to another.
Physical chemistry is the study of macroscopic, atomic, subatomic, and particulate phenomena in chemical systems in terms of the principles, practices and concepts of physics such as motion, energy, force, time, thermodynamics, quantum chemistry, statistical mechanics, analytical dynamics and chemical equilibrium.
A perimeter is a path that surrounds a two-dimensional shape. The term may be used either for the path or its length—it can be thought of as the length of the outline of a shape.
In the physical sciences, a phase is a region of space (a thermodynamic system), throughout which all physical properties of a material are essentially uniform. Examples of physical properties include density, index of refraction, magnetization and chemical composition.
Physical science is a branch of natural science that studies non-living or living systems, in contrast to life science. It in turn has many branches, each referred to as a &quot;physical science&quot;, together called the &quot;physical sciences&quot;.
Gasoline (American English) or petrol (British English), is a transparent, petroleum-derived liquid that is used primarily as a fuel in internal combustion engines. It consists mostly of organic compounds obtained by the fractional distillation of petroleum, enhanced with a variety of additives.
A pentose is a monosaccharide with five carbon atoms.Pentose, Merriam-Webster Pentoses are organized into two groups.
The Precambrian (or Pre-Cambrian, sometimes abbreviated pЄ, or Cryptozoic) is the earliest part of Earth's history, set before the current Phanerozoic Eon. The Precambrian is so named because it preceded the Cambrian, the first period of the Phanerozoic eon, which is named after Cambria, the Latinised name for Wales, where rocks from this age were first studied.
thumb|A strip of eight PCR tubes, each containing a 100 μl reaction mixture
thumb|Structure of [[Taq polymerase|Taq DNA polymerase]]
The Pacific Scandal was a political scandal in Canada involving allegations of bribes being accepted by  150 members of the Conservative government in the attempts of private interests to influence the bidding for a national rail contract.  As part of British Columbia's 1871 agreement to join Canadian Confederation, the government had agreed to build a transcontinental railway linking the Pacific Province to the eastern provinces.
A primer is a short strand of RNA or DNA (generally about 18-22 bases) that serves as a starting point for DNA synthesis. It is required for DNA replication because the enzymes that catalyze this process, DNA polymerases, can only add new nucleotides to an existing strand of DNA.
Play-by-mail games, or play-by-post games, are games, of any type, played through postal mail or email.
The Philip K. Dick Award is a science fiction award given annually at Norwescon sponsored by the Philadelphia Science Fiction Society and (since 2005) supported by the Philip K.
In computing, a plug-in (or plugin, add-in, addin, add-on, addon, or extension) is a software component that adds a specific feature to an existing computer program. When a program supports plug-ins, it enables customization.
Phutball (short for Philosopher's Football) is a two-player strategy board game described in Elwyn Berlekamp, John Horton Conway, and Richard K. Guy's Winning Ways for your Mathematical Plays.
Papyrus  is a material similar to thick paper that was used in ancient times as writing surface. It was made from the pith of the papyrus plant, Cyperus papyrus, a wetland sedge.
In digital imaging, a pixel, pel, dots, or picture element is a physical point in a raster image, or the smallest addressable element in an all points addressable display device; so it is the smallest controllable element of a picture represented on the screen. The address of a pixel corresponds to its physical coordinates.
A prime number (or a prime) is a natural number greater than 1 that has no positive divisors other than 1 and itself. A natural number greater than 1 that is not a prime number is called a composite number.
In number theory, a perfect number is a positive integer that is equal to the sum of its proper positive divisors, that is, the sum of its positive divisors excluding the number itself (also known as its aliquot sum). Equivalently, a perfect number is a number that is half the sum of all of its positive divisors (including itself) i.
Philosophical Investigations () is a work by the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, first published, posthumously, in 1953, in which Wittgenstein discusses numerous problems and puzzles in the fields of semantics, logic, philosophy of mathematics, philosophy of psychology, philosophy of action, and philosophy of mind. He puts forth the view that conceptual confusions surrounding language use are at the root of most philosophical problems, contradicting or discarding much of what he argued in his earlier work, the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus (1921).
Panspermia () is the hypothesis that life exists throughout the Universe, distributed by meteoroids, asteroids, comets, planetoids, and also by spacecraft in the form of unintended contamination by microorganisms.Forward planetary  contamination like Tersicoccus phoenicis, that has shown resistance to methods usually used in spacecraft assembly clean rooms:
&quot;There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom&quot; was a lecture given by physicist Richard Feynman at an American Physical Society meeting at Caltech on December 29, 1959. Feynman considered the possibility of direct manipulation of individual atoms as a more powerful form of synthetic chemistry than those used at the time.
Philately ( ) is the study of stamps and postal history and other related items. It also refers to the collection, appreciation and research activities on stamps and other philatelic products.
Perjury is the intentional act of swearing a false oath or falsifying an affirmation to tell the truth, whether spoken or in writing, concerning matters material to an official proceeding.&quot;Perjury The act or an instance of a person’s deliberately making material false or misleading statements while under oath.
Phoenix most often refers to:
In number theory, the prime number theorem (PNT) describes the asymptotic distribution of the prime numbers among the positive integers. It formalizes the intuitive idea that primes become less common as they become larger by precisely quantifying the rate at which this occurs.
}}
}}
The International Fixed Calendar (also known as the Cotsworth plan, the Eastman plan, the 13 Month calendar or the Equal Month calendar) is a solar calendar proposal for calendar reform designed by Moses B. Cotsworth, who presented it in 1902.
In physics, Potential Energy is the energy possessed by an object because of its position relative to other objects, stresses within itself, its electric charge, or other factors.
A pyramid (from  )πυραμίς, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus Digital LibraryThe word meant &quot;a kind of cake of roasted wheat-grains preserved in honey&quot;; the Egyptian pyramids were named after its form (R. S.
Predestination, in theology, is the doctrine that all events have been willed by God, usually with reference to the eventual fate of the individual soul.&quot;Predestination&quot;,  The American Heritage New Dictionary of Cultural Literacy, Third Edition.
In mathematics, logic, and formal systems, a primitive notion is an undefined concept. In particular, a primitive notion is not defined in terms of previously defined concepts, but is only motivated informally, usually by an appeal to intuition and everyday experience.
A priest or priestess (feminine) ( from  Greek πρεσβύτερος presbýteros through Latin presbyter, &quot;elder&quot;, or from Old High German priast, prest, from Vulgar Latin &quot;provost&quot; &quot;one put over others&quot;, from Latin praepositus &quot;person placed in charge&quot;), is a religious leader authorized to perform the sacred rituals of a religion, especially as a mediatory agent between humans and one or more deities. They also have the authority or power to administer religious rites; in particular, rites of sacrifice to, and propitiation of, a deity or deities.
Punctuation (formerly sometimes called pointing) is the use of spacing, conventional signs, and certain typographical devices as aids to the understanding and the correct reading, both silently and aloud, of handwritten and printed texts.Encyclopædia Britannica: &quot;Punctuation.
A pentomino (or 5-omino) is a polyomino of order 5, that is, a polygon in the plane made of 5 equal-sized squares connected edge-to-edge.  When rotations and reflections are not considered to be distinct shapes, there are 12 different free pentominoes.
A programmer, computer programmer, developer, dev, coder, or software engineer is a person who creates computer software. The term computer programmer can refer to a specialist in one area of computer programming or to a generalist who writes code for many kinds of software.
This page shows large-cell versions of the periodic table. For each element name, symbol, atomic number, and mean atomic mass value for the natural isotopic composition of each element are shown.
In semiconductor manufacturing plasma ashing is the process of removing the photoresist (light sensitive coating) from an etched wafer. Using a plasma source, a monatomic (single atom) substance known as a reactive species is generated.
Psychophysiology (from Greek , psȳkhē, &quot;breath, life, soul&quot;; , physis, &quot;nature, origin&quot;; and , [is the branch of psychology] that is concerned with the [[physiology|physiological bases of psychological processes. While psychophysiology was a general broad field of research in the 1960s and 1970s, it has now become quite specialized, and has branched into subspecializations such as social psychophysiology, cardiovascular psychophysiology, cognitive psychophysiology, and cognitive neuroscience.
Periodization is the process or study of categorizing the past into discrete, quantified named blocks of timeAdam Rabinowitz. It’s about time: historical periodization and Linked Ancient World Data.
PLD may refer to:
thumb|300px|Propeller on a modern mid-sized merchant vessel. The propeller rotates clockwise to propel the ship forward when viewed from astern (right of picture); the person in the picture has his hand on the blade's trailing edge.
A toxin (from ) is a poisonous substance produced within living cells or organisms; synthetic toxicants created by artificial processes are thus excluded. The term was first used by organic chemist Ludwig Brieger (1849–1919).
The Phanerozoic Eon.}}}}}} (British English Phanærozoic) is the current geologic eon in the geologic time scale, and the one during which abundant animal and plant life has existed.
)
Paul the Deacon  ( 720s  13 April 799 AD), also known as Paulus Diaconus, Warnefridus, Barnefridus, Winfridus and sometimes suffixed Cassinensis (i.e.
A peroxide is a compound containing an oxygen–oxygen single bond or the peroxide anion, . The O−O group is called the peroxide group or peroxo group.
Photolithography, also termed optical lithography or UV lithography, is a process used in  microfabrication to pattern parts of a thin film or the bulk of a substrate. It uses light to transfer a geometric pattern from a photomask to a light-sensitive chemical &quot;photoresist&quot;, or simply &quot;resist,&quot; on the substrate.
Paramagnetism is a form of magnetism whereby certain materials are weakly attracted by an externally applied magnetic field, and form internal, induced magnetic fields in the direction of the applied magnetic field. In contrast with this behavior, diamagnetic materials are repelled by magnetic fields and form induced magnetic fields in the direction opposite to that of the applied magnetic field.
Parapsychology is a field of study concerned with the investigation of paranormal and psychic phenomena which include telepathy, precognition, clairvoyance, psychokinesis, near-death experiences, reincarnation, apparitional experiences, and other paranormal claims. It is identified as pseudoscience by the overwhelming majority of mainstream scientists.
Presburger arithmetic is the first-order theory of the natural numbers with addition, named in honor of Mojżesz Presburger, who introduced it in 1929. The signature of Presburger arithmetic contains only the addition operation and equality, omitting the multiplication operation entirely.
Crystalline materials (mainly metals and alloys, but also stoichiometric salts and other materials) are made up of solid regions of ordered matter (atoms placed in one of a number of ordered formations called Bravais lattices).  These regions are known as crystals.
Linus  (AD 10 - 23 September 76) was, according to several early sources, the second Bishop of Rome, and is listed by the Catholic Church as the second pope.
A pilgrimage is a journey or search of moral or spiritual significance. Typically, it is a journey to a shrine or other location of importance to a person's beliefs and faith, although sometimes it can be a metaphorical journey into someone's own beliefs.
Patch may  refer to:
Perth is the capital of Western Australia.
Paolo Agostino (or Agostini; Augustinus in Latin; c. 1583 – 1629) was an Italian composer and organist of the early Baroque era.
Pavel Samuilovich Urysohn () (February 3, 1898 – August 17, 1924) was a Soviet  mathematician of Jewish origin who is best known for his contributions in dimension theory, and for developing Urysohn's Metrization Theorem and Urysohn's Lemma, both of which are fundamental results in topology. His name is also commemorated in the terms Urysohn universal space, Fréchet–Urysohn space, Menger–Urysohn dimension and Urysohn integral equation.
Program (American spelling) or programme (British spelling) may refer to:
Pluots, apriums, apriplums, or plumcots, are some of the hybrids between different Prunus species that are also called interspecific plums. In the United States and Canada, these fruits are known by most regulatory agencies as interspecific plums.
Paint is any liquid, liquefiable, or [composition that, after application to a substrate] in a thin layer, converts to a [[solid film. It is most commonly used to protect, color, or provide texture to objects.
PC or pc may refer to:
A photoresist is a light-sensitive material used in several processes, such as photolithography and photoengraving, to form a patterned coating on a surface, which is crucial in the whole electronic industry.
Phrenology () is a pseudomedicine primarily focused on measurements of the human skull, based on the concept that the brain is the organ of the mind, and that certain brain areas have localized, specific functions or modules.Fodor, Jerry A.
Άγιος Αλέξανδρος ο Ιερομάρτυρας πάπας Ρώμης Ορθόδοξος Συναξαριστής (East)
In mathematics, the Poincaré conjecture (; ) is a theorem about the characterization of the 3-sphere, which is the hypersphere that bounds the unit ball in four-dimensional space. The conjecture states:  An equivalent form of the conjecture involves a coarser form of equivalence than homeomorphism called homotopy equivalence: if a 3-manifold is homotopy equivalent to the 3-sphere, then it is necessarily homeomorphic to it.
thumb|250px|The elements of the power set of the set {x, y, z}  [[order theory|ordered with respect to inclusion.]]
Procedural programming is a programming paradigm, derived from structured programming, based upon the concept of the procedure call.  Procedures, also known as routines, subroutines, or functions (not to be confused with mathematical functions, but similar to those used in functional programming), simply contain a series of computational steps to be carried out.
In economics the Pareto index, named after the Italian economist and sociologist Vilfredo Pareto, is a measure of the breadth of income or wealth distribution.  It is one of the parameters specifying a Pareto distribution and embodies the Pareto principle.
(aged 66)
(aged 95)
() is a proper Indian name.  Several important ancient Sanskrit works are ascribed to one or more authors of this name, and a great deal of scholarship has been devoted over the last century or so to the issue of disambiguation.
(Obedience and Peace)
(&quot;The work of justice [shall be] peace&quot; [Is. 32: 17])
(aged 65)
(aged 46)
}}
Pantheon may refer to:
thumb|right|Illustrated manuscript depicting Pope Joan with the [[papal tiara. Bibliothèque nationale de France, circa 1560.
Pierre Allix (1641 – 3 March 1717) was a French Protestant pastor and author. In 1690 Allix was created Doctor of Divinity by Emmanuel College, Cambridge,  and was given the treasurership and a canonry in Salisbury Cathedral by Bishop Gilbert Burnet.
The Prague Spring (, ) was a period of political liberalization in Czechoslovakia during the era of its domination by the Soviet Union after World War II. It began on 5 January 1968, when reformist Alexander Dubček was elected First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSČ), and continued until 21 August 1968 when the Soviet Union and other members of the Warsaw Pact invaded the country to halt the reforms.
Pope Agapetus II (5 March 905 - 8 November 955) was Pope from 10 May 946 to his death in 955. A nominee of the Princeps of Rome, Alberic II, his pontificate occurred during the period known as the Saeculum obscurum.
}}
Pope Anastasius III (845 - June 913) was Pope from April 911 to his death in 913. He was a Roman by birth.
(aged 53)
Pope Anastasius I (340 - 19 December 401) served as Pope from 27 November 399 to his death in 401. Retrieved 2012-03-04.
thumb|upright=1.5|The first 150 Pokémon as they appear in [[Pokémon Stadium, starting with Bulbasaur in the top left corner and ending with Mewtwo in the bottom right corner]]
Following the discovery of the planet Neptune in 1846, there was considerable speculation that another planet might exist beyond its orbit. The search began in the mid-19th century and culminated at the start of the 20th with Percival Lowell's quest for Planet X.
In astronomy, a plutino is a trans-Neptunian object in 2:3 mean-motion resonance with Neptune. For every 2 orbits that a plutino makes, Neptune orbits 3 times.
A prism is a transparent optical component with flat surfaces that refract light.
)|East Low German|East Pomeranian dialect}}
The Peace of Westphalia () was a series of peace treaties signed between May and October 1648 in the Westphalian cities of Osnabrück and Münster, effectively ending the European wars of religion.
}}
(aged 53)
}}
(aged 77)
 354
thumb|300px|right|Minibike race at Lelystad (NL)
}}
Phantom may refer to:
Production car racing, showroom stock racing, street Stock,  pure stock, and U-car racing are all categories of auto racing where unmodified (or very lightly modified) cars race each other, outright and also in classes.
In organic chemistry, phenols, sometimes called phenolics, are a class of chemical compounds consisting of a hydroxyl group (—OH) bonded directly to an aromatic hydrocarbon group. The simplest of the class is phenol, which is also called carbolic acid .
Gnaeus Pompeius|other members of gens Pompeia|Pompeia (gens)|other uses}}
Polymorphism, polymorphic or polymorph may refer to:
Pasta () is a staple food of traditional Italian cuisine, with the first reference dating to 1154 in Sicily.
See definition 3.1, p.
Phoenix is an Australian police drama television series. Phoenix screened as two thirteen-part series on Australian Broadcasting Corporation in 1992 and 1993.
The protocol stack or network stack is an implementation of a computer networking protocol suite.  The terms are often used interchangeably.
Pilsner (also pilsener or simply pils) is a type of pale lager. It takes its name from Plzeň (Pilsen in Czech Republic), a city in Bohemia, then in the Austrian Empire, now in the Czech Republic, where it was first produced in 1842.
The phlogiston theory is a superseded scientific theory that postulated that a fire-like element called phlogiston is contained within combustible bodies and released during combustion. The name comes from the Ancient Greek [phlogistón (burning up), from φλόξ] phlóx (flame).
In folklore and parapsychology, a Poltergeist (German for &quot;noisy ghost&quot; or &quot;noisy spirit&quot;) is a type of ghost or other supernatural entity which is  responsible for physical disturbances, such as loud noises and objects being moved or destroyed. They are purportedly capable of pinching, biting, hitting, and tripping people.
A pulley is a wheel on an axle or shaft that is designed to support movement and change of direction of a taut cable. The supporting shells are called blocks.
The Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty, also known as the Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, or the Madrid Protocol, is part of the Antarctic Treaty System.  It provides for comprehensive protection of the Antarctic environment and dependent and associated ecosystems.
Particle radiation is the radiation of energy by means of fast-moving subatomic particles. Particle radiation is referred to as a particle beam if the particles are all moving in the same direction, similar to a light beam.
Per capita income or average income measures the average income earned per person in a given area (city, region, country, etc.) in a specified year.
Partizan Press is a publisher of military history, especially about the English Civil War.  They are the publishing division of Caliver Books — which is based in Leigh-on-Sea and Newthorpe.
Putumayo may refer to:
A polyhedral compound is a figure that is composed of several polyhedra sharing a common centre.  They are the three-dimensional analogs of polygonal compounds such as the hexagram.
In three-dimensional space, a Platonic solid is a regular, convex polyhedron. It is constructed by congruent regular polygonal faces with the same number of faces meeting at each vertex.
PRC is the People's Republic of China, the formal name of the country China.
)
In geometry, a prismatoid is a polyhedron whose vertices all lie in two parallel planes. Its lateral faces can be trapezoids or triangles.
A Phantom kangaroo is a report of kangaroos, wallabies, or their accompanying footprints in areas where there is no native population. Some explanations put forth are escaped zoo or circus animals (as in the UK), or publicity stunts by local businesses using photographs from Australia.
(Latin)
Posthumous execution is the ritual or ceremonial mutilation of an already dead body as a punishment.  It is typically performed to show that even in death, one cannot escape justice.
http://installatron.com/updatefeed/php_nuke_8_3_2
A palace is a grand residence, especially a royal residence, or the home of a head of state or some other high-ranking dignitary, such as a bishop or archbishop.
(aged 62)
, ECMAScript, Falcon, Groovy, JavaScript, Julia, LPC, Perl 6, PHP, Python, Ruby, Windows PowerShell
The Proto-Human language (also Proto-Sapiens, Proto-World) is the speculative most recent common ancestor of all, or at least the large majority of, the world's languages.
}}
Palestinian Christians () are Christian citizens of the State of Palestine. In the wider definition of Palestinian Christians, including the Palestinian refugees, diaspora and people with full or partial Palestinian Christian ancestry this can be applied to an estimated 500,000 people worldwide as of the year 2000.
Pope Marinus II (or Martin III; 1 January 900 - May 946), was Pope from 30 October 942 to his death in 946.
Pope Marcellus I (died 309) was the Bishop of Rome or Pope from May or June 308 to his death in 309. He succeeded Pope Marcellinus after a considerable interval.
Pope Miltiades, or Melchiades (; died 10 January 314), was Bishop of Rome from 2 July 311 to his death in 314.Annuario Pontificio 2012 (Libreria Editrice Vaticana ), p.
In biology, phylogenetics }}}} (Greek: φυλή, φῦλον - phylé, phylon = tribe, clan, race + γενετικός - genetikós = origin, source, birth) is the study of the evolutionary history and relationships among individuals or groups of organisms (e.g.
In biology, phenetics ( - to appear) , also known as taximetrics, is an attempt to classify organisms based on overall similarity, usually in morphology or other observable traits, regardless of their phylogeny or evolutionary relation. It is closely related to numerical taxonomy which is concerned with the use of numerical methods for taxonomic classification.
The PDP-1 (Programmed Data Processor-1) is the first computer in Digital Equipment Corporation's PDP series and was first produced in 1959. It is famous for being the computer most important in the creation of hacker culture at MIT, BBN and elsewhere.
PCR is polymerase chain reaction, a biochemical technology in molecular biology.
Pico may refer to:
[drawing of bacterial conjugation. 1- Donor cell produces pilus.
1988–1995:
A plasmid is a small  DNA molecule within a cell that is physically separated from a chromosomal DNA and can replicate independently. The term was coined by Lederberg and Hays and shortly discovered by Tatum.
In geometry, a parallelepiped is a three-dimensional figure formed by six parallelograms (the term rhomboid is also sometimes used with this meaning). By analogy, it relates to a parallelogram just as a cube relates to a square or as a cuboid to a rectangle.
thumb|323px|Plant cell structure
right|thumb|350px|3D structure of [[cellulose, a beta-glucan polysaccharide.]]
AD 100
The petabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. The prefix peta indicates the fifth power of 1000 and means 1015 in the International System of Units (SI), and therefore 1 petabyte is one quadrillion (short scale) bytes, or 1 billiard (long scale) bytes.
, genitive
Parasitic computing is programming technique where a program in normal authorized interactions with another program manages to get the other program to perform computations of a complex nature. It is, in a sense, a security exploit in that the program implementing the parasitic computing has no authority to consume resources made available to the other program.
Pegasus (, Pḗgasos; ) is one of the best known creatures in Greek mythology. He is a winged divine stallion usually depicted as pure white in color.
right|thumb|Poster for the European Parliament election 2004 in Italy, showing party lists
, genitive the same
or , genitive
The Ptolemaic dynasty  (, Ptolemaioi), sometimes also known as the Lagids  or Lagidae  (, Lagidai, after Lagus, Ptolemy I's father), was a Macedonian Greek royal family, which ruled the Ptolemaic Kingdom in Egypt during the Hellenistic period. Their rule lasted for 275 years, from 305 to 30 BC.
thumb|300px|[[Hip, Hip, Hurrah! (1888) by Peder Severin Krøyer, a painting portraying an artists' party in 19th century Denmark]]
A political party is a group of people who come together to contest elections and hold power in the government. The party agrees on some proposed policies and programmes, with a view to promoting the collective good or furthering their supporters' interests.
Pickup, Pick up or Pick-up may refer to:
This page is a directory to various pages that will list political parties, from around the world, according to their respective regions. All of the pages linked from here include a table listing the sub-pages of countries/jurisdiction in the given region, showing which party system is dominant in each country.
Paraffin wax is a white or colourless soft solid derivable from petroleum, coal or oil shale, that consists of a mixture of hydrocarbon molecules containing between twenty and forty carbon atoms. It is solid at room temperature and begins to melt above approximately ; its boiling point is &gt;.
(aged 54)
(aged 50)
(aged 48)
(aged 50)
Pope Benedict VI (; 12 March 925 - 8 June 974) was Pope from 19 January 973 to his death in 974. His brief pontificate occurred in the political context of the establishment of the Holy Roman Empire, during the transition between the reigns of German emperors Otto I and Otto II, incorporating the struggle for power of Roman aristocratic families such as the Crescentii and Tusculani.
(aged 53)
Pope Benedict IX (; c. 1012 – c.
(aged 62)
Wikisource:Catholic Encyclopedia (1913)/Pope Benedict XIII
In articulatory phonetics, the place of articulation (also point of articulation) of a consonant is the point of contact where an [occurs in the vocal tract] between an articulatory gesture, an active [[articulator (typically some part of the tongue), and a passive location (typically some part of the roof of the mouth). Along with the manner of articulation and the phonation, it gives the consonant its distinctive sound.
-
Polygyny (; from Neoclassical Greek πολυγυνία from πολύ- poly- &quot;many&quot;, and γυνή gyne &quot;woman&quot; or &quot;wife&quot;A Greek–English Lexicon, Liddell &amp; Scott, [γυνή) is the most common and accepted form of polygamy], entailing the marriage of a man with several women. Most countries that permit polygamy are [[Muslim-majority countries in which polygyny is the only form permitted.
The proteome is the entire set of proteins expressed by a genome, cell, tissue, or organism at a certain time. More specifically, it is the set of expressed proteins in a given type of cell or organism, at a given time, under defined conditions.
(Humility)
(With Him on the mount) (In the name of the Lord)
Peptides (from Gr.: πεπτός, peptós &quot;digested&quot;; derived from πέσσειν, péssein &quot;to digest&quot;) are natural biological or artificially manufactured short chains of amino acid monomers linked by peptide (amide) bonds.
PET may refer to:
-
The pavane, pavan, paven, pavin, pavian, pavine, or pavyn (It. pavana, padovana; Ger.
Project management is the discipline of initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closing the work of a team to achieve specific goals and meet specific success criteria. A project is a temporary endeavor designed to produce a unique product, service or result with a defined beginning and end (usually time-constrained, and often constrained by funding or deliverable) undertaken to meet unique goals and objectives, typically to bring about beneficial change or added value.
thumb| The relationship between [[Wave period|period, frequency, and amplitude for a sine wave is illustrated in this image]]
In quantum mechanics, the particle in a box model (also known as the infinite potential well or the infinite square well) describes a particle free to move in a small space surrounded by impenetrable barriers.  The model is mainly used as a hypothetical example to illustrate the differences between classical and quantum systems.
British author Peter F. Hamilton's The Night's Dawn Trilogy consists of three science fiction novels: The Reality Dysfunction (1996), The Neutronium Alchemist (1997), and The Naked God (1999).
(aged 47)
Pope Boniface II (; 490 - 17 October 532) was the first Germanic pope. He reigned from 17 September 530 until his death in 532.
}}
 550
(aged 50)
984 (second papacy)
(aged 48)
300px|right|thumb|Basic structure of a peroxisome
In science, specifically statistical mechanics, a population inversion occurs while a system (such as a group of atoms or molecules) exists in a state in which more members of the system are in higher, excited states than in lower, unexcited energy states. It is called an &quot;inversion&quot; because in many familiar and commonly encountered physical systems, this is not possible.
Pope Saint Pius I (7 September 81 - 11 July 155) is said to have been the Bishop of Rome from c. 140 to his death c.
* application/x-pdf
(2014)
Protagoras (; ; c. 490 – c.
The Puritans were a group of English Reformed Protestants in the 16th and 17th centuries who sought to &quot;purify&quot; the Church of England from its &quot;Catholic&quot; practices, maintaining that the Church of England was only partially reformed.Julie Spraggon (2003).
Paul may refer to:
A plough (UK) or plow (US; both ) is a tool or farm implement used in farming for initial cultivation of soil in preparation for sowing seed or planting to loosen or turn the soil. Ploughs were traditionally drawn by working animals such as horses or cattle, but in modern times are drawn by tractors.
In logic, the semantic principle (or law) of bivalence states that every declarative sentence expressing a proposition (of a theory under inspection) has exactly one truth value, either true or false. A logic satisfying this principle is called a two-valued logic or bivalent logic.
}}
Pope Clement III (; 1130 – 20 March 1191), born Paulino (or Paolo) Scolari,Cheetham, Nicolas, Keepers of the Keys, (Charles Scribner's Sons, 1982), 325. reigned from 19 December 1187 to his death in 1191.
(aged c. 50 years)
thumb|200px|A peer-to-peer (P2P) network in which interconnected nodes (&quot;peers&quot;) share resources amongst each other without the use of a centralized administrative system
A prime minister is the most senior minister of cabinet in the executive branch of government, often in a parliamentary or semi-presidential system. In many systems, the prime minister selects and may dismiss other members of the cabinet, and allocates posts to members within the government.
In politics, president is a title given to leaders of republican states. In the modern world, it is a common title for the head of state in most republics.
border
The religious affiliations of Presidents of the United States can affect their electability, shape their stances on policy matters and their visions of society and also how they want to lead it. Speculation of Thomas Jefferson,
Peer review is the evaluation of work by one or more people of similar competence to the producers of the work (peers). It constitutes a form of self-regulation by qualified members of a profession within the relevant field.
Prime Minister
Passive management (also called passive investing) is an investing strategy that tracks a market-weighted index or portfolio. The most popular method is to mimic the performance of an externally specified index by buying an index fund.
}}
NiciasAlcibiadesDemosthenes
The pan flutes (also known as panpipes or syrinx) are a group of musical instruments based on the principle of the closed tube, consisting of multiple pipes of gradually increasing length (and occasionally girth). Multiple varieties of panflutes have long been popular as folk instruments.
thumb|right|The Llyn Stwlan dam of the [[Ffestiniog Power Station|Ffestiniog Pumped Storage Scheme in Wales. The lower power station has four water turbines which can generate a total of 360 MW of electricity for several hours, an example of artificial energy storage and conversion.
In Greek mythology, Priam (; , Príamos, ) was the king of Troy during the Trojan War and youngest son of Laomedon. In the Post-Homeric History of the Fall of Troy, he was described as provided with &quot;a handsome face and a pleasant voice&quot;, &quot;large and swarthy&quot;.
thumb|right|500px|✸54.43:
Process theology is a type of theology developed from Alfred North Whitehead's (1861–1947) process philosophy, most notably by Charles Hartshorne (1897–2000) and John B. Cobb (b.
In particle physics, proton decay is a hypothetical form of radioactive decay in which the proton decays into lighter subatomic particles, such as a neutral pion and a positron.Radioactive decays by Protons.
AD 5Peter and Paul . In the Footsteps of Paul .
}}
In music, polyphony is one type of musical texture, where a texture is, generally speaking, the way that melodic, rhythmic, and harmonic aspects of a musical composition are combined to shape the overall sound and quality of the work. In particular, polyphony consists of two or more simultaneous lines of independent melody, as opposed to a musical texture with just one voice, monophony, or a texture with one dominant melodic voice accompanied by chords, which is called homophony.
The pun, also called paronomasia, is a form of word play that exploits multiple meanings of a term, or of similar-sounding words, for an intended humorous or rhetorical effect.Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary.
A  palindrome is a word, phrase, number, or other sequence of characters which reads the same backward as forward, such as madam or racecar. Sentence-length palindromes may be written when allowances are made for adjustments to capital letters, punctuation, and word dividers, such as &quot;A man, a plan, a canal, Panama!
(aged 59)
Piper, the pepper plants or pepper vines (a term used for certain Clematis in older times), are an economically and ecologically important genus in the family Piperaceae.
Pride and Prejudice is a romance novel by Jane Austen, first published in 1813. The story charts the emotional development of the protagonist, Elizabeth Bennet, who learns the error of making hasty judgments and comes to appreciate the difference between the superficial and the essential.
Titus Maccius Plautus (c. 254 – 184 BC), commonly known as Plautus, was a Roman playwright of the Old Latin period.
thumb|The Pythagorean theorem:  c2}}
Pattern welding is the practice in sword and knife making of forming a blade of several metal pieces of differing composition that are forge-welded together and twisted and manipulated to form a pattern. Often called (Modern) Damascus steel, blades forged in this manner often display bands of slightly different patterning along their entire length.
page 120John 12–21 by John MacArthur 2008  pages 17–18
Preterism is a Christian eschatological view that interprets some (partial preterism) or all (full preterism) prophecies of the Bible as events which have already happened. This school of thought interprets the Book of Daniel as referring to events that happened in the 2nd century BC, while seeing the prophecies of Revelation as events that happened in the first century AD.
thumb|left|upright|Snöklockan at [[Mariatorget, Stockholm.]]
}}
Infant baptism is the practice of baptising infants or young children. In theological discussions, the practice is sometimes referred to as paedobaptism, or pedobaptism, from the Greek pais meaning &quot;child&quot;.
PseudocodeBJ Furman (29 December 2010). &quot;Notes on Algorithms, Pseudocode, and Flowcharts&quot;.
Pre-existence, preexistence, beforelife, or premortal existence refers to the belief that each individual human soul existed before mortal conception, and at some point before birth enters or is placed into the body. Concepts of pre-existence can encompass either the belief that the soul came into existence at some time prior to conception or the belief that the soul is eternal.
The Prussian Confederation (, ) was an organization formed on 21 February 1440 at Marienwerder by a group of 53 nobles and clergy and 19 cities in Prussia, to oppose the arbitrariness of the Teutonic Knights. It was based on the basis of an earlier similar organization, the Lizard Union established in 1397 by Chełmno Land nobles.
Parimutuel betting (from the  or mutual betting) is a betting system in which all bets of a particular type are placed together in a pool; taxes and the &quot;house-take&quot; or &quot;vigorish&quot; are removed, and payoff odds are calculated by sharing the pool among all winning bets. In some countries it is known as the Tote after the totalisator, which calculates and displays bets already made.
}}
(aged 62)
(aged 54)
(aged 27)
}}
The Book of Psalms ( or , Tehillim, &quot;praises&quot;), commonly referred to simply as Psalms or &quot;the Psalms&quot;, is the first book of the Ketuvim (&quot;Writings&quot;), the third section of the Hebrew Bible, and a book of the Christian Old Testament. The title is derived from the Greek translation, ψαλμοί psalmoi, meaning &quot;instrumental music&quot; and, by extension, &quot;the words accompanying the music.
The Philistines (, , , or ;Dictionary.com – &quot;Philistines&quot;.
The Prometheus Award is an award for libertarian science fiction novels given annually by the Libertarian Futurist Society, which also publishes the quarterly journal Prometheus. L.
thumb|280px|right|Parasailing in Punta Cana, [[Dominican Republic]]
Profanity is socially offensive language,&quot;Definition of Profanity&quot;, Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary, retrieved on 2014-08-31. which may also be called bad language, strong language, offensive language, coarse language, foul language, bad words, vulgar language, lewd language, choice words or expletives.
Public key cryptography, or asymmetrical cryptography, is any cryptographic system that uses pairs of keys: public keys which may be disseminated widely, and private keys which are known only to the owner.  This accomplishes two functions: authentication, which is when the public key is used to verify that a holder of the paired private key sent the message, and encryption, whereby only the holder of the paired private key can decrypt the message encrypted with the public key.
(aged 49)
}}
}}
PS, P.S.
Pai gow poker (also called double-hand poker) is an Americanized version of pai gow (in that it is played with playing cards bearing poker hand values, instead of pai gow's Chinese dominoes). The game of pai gow poker was created in 1985 by Sam Torosian, owner of the Bell Card Club.
__NOTOC__
4
thumb|Bavarian military Pickelhaube
Pankration ( or ) (Greek: παγκράτιον) was a sporting event introduced into the Greek Olympic Games in 648 BC and was an empty-hand submission sport with scarcely any rules. The athletes used boxing and wrestling techniques, but also others, such as kicking and holds, locks and chokes on the ground.
border
The Polish Corridor (; ), also known as Danzig Corridor, Corridor to the Sea or Gdańsk Corridor, was a territory located in the region of Pomerelia (Pomeranian Voivodeship, eastern Pomerania, formerly part of West Prussia), which provided the Second Republic of Poland (1920–1939) with access to the Baltic Sea, thus dividing the bulk of Germany from the province of East Prussia. The Free City of Danzig (now the Polish city of Gdańsk) was separate from both Poland and Germany.
Peter Guralnick (born December 15, 1943, in Boston, Massachusetts) is an American  music critic, author and screenwriter. He specializes in the history of early rock'n'roll and has written prominent works on Elvis Presley, Sam Phillips, and Sam Cooke.
In Greek mythology, Persephone (, ; ), also called Kore (; &quot;the maiden&quot;) or Cora, is the daughter of Zeus and the harvest goddess Demeter and is the queen of the underworld. Homer describes her as the formidable, venerable majestic princess of the underworld, who carries into effect the curses of men upon the souls of the dead.
A pandemic (from Greek πᾶν pan &quot;all&quot; and δῆμος demos &quot;people&quot;) is an epidemic of infectious disease that has spread through human populations across a large region; for instance multiple continents, or even worldwide.
Phoniatrics or phoniatryhttp://dictionary.infoplease.
}}
Panga is the common South African name for Pterogymnus laniarius, a small, [fish], native to the southeast [[Atlantic Ocean and southwest Indian Ocean. Alternatively called &quot;torpedo scads&quot;, they are cold-blooded with white flesh.
Progeny Linux Systems was a company which provided Linux platform technology. Their Platform Services technology supported both Debian and RPM-based distributions for Linux platforms.
ping is a computer network administration software utility used to test the reachability of a host on an Internet Protocol (IP) network. It measures the round-trip time for messages sent from the originating host to a destination computer that are echoed back to the source.
In mathematics, profinite groups are topological groups that are in a certain sense assembled from finite groups; they share many properties with their finite quotients.
}}
Process philosophy (also ontology of becoming, processism,Nicholas Rescher, Process Metaphysics: An Introduction to Process Philosophy, SUNY Press, 1996, p. 60.
(aged 65)
Pope Sixtus I (1 April 42 –  3 April 125), of Greek descent,George L. Williams, &quot;Papal Genealogy: The Families and Descendants of the Popes&quot;, p.
(aged 57)
(aged 50)
Akeley, MinnesotaBemidji, MinnesotaBrainerd, MinnesotaOscoda, MichiganOssineke, MichiganSt. Ignace, MichiganEau Claire, WisconsinStevens Point, WisconsinWausau, Wisconsin
[Referring to the subfamily by the name &quot;Spiraeoideae&quot;]
The Peloponnesian League was an alliance in the Peloponnesus from the 6th to the 4th centuries BC. It  is known mainly for being one of the two rivals in the Peloponnesian War (431–404 BC)
Pope Urban I (9 June 175 - 23 May 230) () was Bishop of Rome or Pope from 222 to 23 May 230.Kirsch, Johann Peter (1912).
(aged 57)
In Greek mythology, Pandora (Greek: ,  derived from , pān, i.e.
Plasticity  may refer to:
In the common law, the peremptory pleas (pleas in bar) are defensive pleas that set out special reasons for which a trial cannot proceed; they serve to bar the case entirely.  Pleas in bar may be used in civil or criminal cases; they address the substantial merits of the case.
(Law French for &quot;hard and forceful punishment&quot;) was a method of torture formerly used in the common law legal system, in which a defendant who refused to plead (&quot;stood mute&quot;) would be subjected to having heavier and heavier stones placed upon his or her chest until a plea was entered, or the defendant died.
thumb|right|A conference session including [[Clement Attlee, Ernest Bevin, Vyacheslav Mikhailovich Molotov, Joseph Stalin, William D. Leahy, Joseph E.
(aged 71)
A password is a word or string of characters used for user authentication to prove identity or access approval to gain access to a resource (example: an access code is a type of password), which is to be kept secret from those not allowed access.
The Potsdam Agreement () was the agreement between three of the Allies of World War II, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union. It concerned the military occupation and reconstruction of Germany, its borders, the status of its former eastern territories, and the entire European Theatre of War territory.
(aged 37)
Pope Sylvester III or Silvester III (1000 – 29 October 1063), born Giovanni dei Crescenzi–Ottaviani in Rome, was Pope from 20 January to March 1045.
(aged 49)
A phantom island is a purported island that appeared on maps for a period of time (sometimes centuries) during recorded history, but was later removed after it was proven not to exist.
In graph theory, a planar graph is a graph that can be embedded in the plane, i.e.
Munaẓẓamat at-Taḥrīr al-Filasṭīniyyah
Prairie dogs (genus Cynomys) are  herbivorous burrowing rodents native to the grasslands of North America. The five species are: black-tailed, white-tailed, Gunnison's, Utah, and Mexican prairie dogs.
Porcupinefish are fish belonging to the family Diodontidae (order Tetraodontiformes), also commonly called blowfish and, sometimes, balloonfish and globefish. They are sometimes collectively called pufferfish, not to be confused with the morphologically similar and closely related Tetraodontidae, which are more commonly given this name.
(aged 49)
Pope Stephen VII (; 880 - 15 March 931)Archibald Bower, The History of the Popes: from the foundation of the See of Rome to A.D.
Pope Stephen VIII (; 11 April 900 - October 942) was Pope from 14 July 939 to his death in 942.
(aged 51)
The giant panda is an animal in the bear family (Ursidae).
In mathematics, a projective plane is a geometric structure that extends the concept of a plane. In the ordinary Euclidean plane, two lines typically intersect in a single point, but there are some pairs of lines (namely, parallel lines) that do not intersect.
PCP may refer to:
}}
thumb|A variety of topics involved with pharmacology, including [[neuropharmacology, renal pharmacology, human metabolism, intracellular metabolism, and intracellular regulation]]
A human pathogen is a pathogen (microbe or microorganism such as a virus, bacterium, prion, or fungus)  that causes disease in humans.
)
A Pacifist organization promotes the pacifist principle of renouncing war and violence for political ends.  They are distinguished from organizations concerned only with removing nuclear weapons from war, though those organization may call for suspension of hostilities as well.
PVC is the plastic polyvinyl chloride.
}}
Pope Victor I (12 February 145 - 26 May 189) was Bishop of Rome, and hence a pope, in the late second century. He was of Berber origin.
Pribislav-Henry (; d. 1150) was a Slavic Christian prince and the last ruler of the Hevelli (Stodorani) tribe in the Northern March of Brandenburg.
Political science, also called government, is a social science which deals with systems of governance, and the analysis of political activities, political thoughts and political behaviour.Oxford Dictionary: political science It deals extensively with the theory and practice of politics which is commonly thought of as determining of the distribution of power and resources.
Public relations (PR) is the practice of managing the spread of information between an individual or an organization (such as a business, government agency, or a nonprofit organization) and the public. Public relations may include an organization or individual gaining exposure to their audiences using topics of public interest and news items that do not require direct payment.
A paradox is a statement that, despite apparently sound reasoning from true premises, leads to an apparently self-contradictory or logically unacceptable conclusion. A paradox involves contradictory yet interrelated elements that exist simultaneously and persist over time.
Parousia (; ) is an ancient Greek word meaning presence, arrival, or official visit.Entry for parousia in the Liddell–Scott lexiconJames D.
Paul J. McAuley (born 23 April 1955) is a British botanist and science fiction author.
The PDP-11 is a series of 16-bit minicomputers sold by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) from 1970 into the 1990s, one of a succession of products in the PDP series. The PDP-11 had several uniquely innovative features, and was easier to program than its predecessors through the additional general-purpose registers.
}}
Torture is the use of physical and/or psychological pain to control the victim and/or fulfill some needs of the perpetrator. The psychology of torture refers to the psychological processes underlying all aspects of torture including the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, the immediate and long-term effects, and the political and social institutions that influence its use.
}}
Presbyterianism is a part of the Reformed tradition within Protestantism which traces its origins to the British Isles, particularly Scotland.
In modern politics and history, a parliament is a legislative, elected body of government. Generally, a modern parliament has three functions: representing the electorate, making laws, and overseeing the government via hearings and inquiries.
Pagan may refer to
The phalanx is a rectangular mass military formation.
Penguin Island  may refer to:
Pommern is the German language name for Pomerania, a historical region divided between Germany and Poland.
The Punic Wars were a series of three wars fought between Rome and Carthage from 264 BC to 146 BC.Chris Scarre, &quot;The Wars with Carthage,&quot; The Penguin Historical Atlas of Ancient Rome (London: Penguin Books, 1995), 24–25.
A punched card or punch card is a piece of stiff paper that can be used to contain digital information represented by the presence or absence of holes in predefined positions. The information might be data for data processing applications or, in earlier examples, used to directly control automated machinery.
Profiler  may refer to:
Pasteur may refer to:
Zosimos}}
Paranasal sinuses are a group of four paired air-filled spaces that surround the nasal cavity. The maxillary sinuses are located under the eyes; the frontal sinuses are above the eyes; the ethmoidal sinuses are between the eyes and the sphenoidal sinuses are behind the eyes.
thumb|300px|Television encoding systems by nation; countries now using (and once using) the PAL system are shown in blue.
Philemon may refer to:
In digital printing a page description language (PDL) is a computer language that describes the appearance of a printed page in a higher level than an actual output bitmap. An overlapping term is printer control language, which includes Hewlett-Packard's Printer Command Language (PCL).
Pope Felix I (2 December 206 - 30 December 274) was the Bishop of Rome or Pope from 5 January 269 to his death in 274.
A peptide bond (amide bond) is a covalent chemical bond linking two consecutive amino acid monomers along a peptide or protein chain.Pauling L.
In the theory of formal languages, the pumping lemma may refer to:
thumb|right|400px|Map showing Persistent Organic Pollutants signatories (green) and ratifications (dark green) as of July 2007
In taxonomy, a group is paraphyletic if it consists of the group's last common ancestor and  all descendants of that ancestor excluding a few—typically only one or two—monophyletic subgroups. The group is said to be paraphyletic with respect to the excluded subgroups.
Pope Innocent III (; 1160 or 1161 – 16 July 1216) reigned from 8 January 1198 to his death in 1216. His birth name was Lotario dei Conti di Segni, sometimes anglicised to Lothar of Segni.
A profession is a vocation founded upon specialized educational training, the purpose of which is to supply disinterested objective counsel and service to others, for a direct and definite compensation, wholly apart from expectation of other business gain.New Statesman, 21 April 1917, article by Sidney Webb and Beatrice Webb quoted with approval at paragraph 123 of a report by the UK Competition Commission, dated 8 November 1977, entitled Architects Services (in Chapter 7).
This is a list of notable and representative Polish composers.
The phonograph is a device, invented in 1877, for the mechanical recording and reproduction of sound. In its later forms, it is also called a gramophone (as a trademark since 1887, as a generic name in the UK since 1910), or, since the 1940s, a record player.
(aged 80)
Polyandry (; from  poly-, &quot;many&quot; and ἀνήρ anēr, &quot;man&quot;) is a form of polygamy in which a woman takes two or more husbands at the same time. Polyandry is contrasted with polygyny, involving one male and two or more females.
Polygamy (from Late Greek , polygamía, &quot;state of marriage to many spouses&quot;). is the practice of  marrying multiple spouses.
A postscript (P.S.
}}
A provirus is a virus genome that is integrated into the DNA of a host cell. In the case of bacterial viruses (bacteriophages), proviruses are often referred to as prophages.
A parade (also called march or marchpast) is a procession of people, usually organized along a street, often in costume, and often accompanied by marching bands, floats or sometimes large balloons. Parades are held for a wide range of reasons, but are usually celebrations of some kind.
In computer science, a priority queue is an abstract data type which is like a regular queue or stack data structure, but where additionally each element has a &quot;priority&quot; associated with it. In a priority queue, an element with high priority is served before an element with low priority.
Pāramitā (Sanskrit, Pali) or pāramī (Pāli) is &quot;perfection&quot; or &quot;completeness&quot;. While, technically, pāramī and pāramitā are both Pāli terms, Pali literature makes far greater reference to pāramī.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to physics:
Parapsychology is field of research that studies a number of ostensible paranormal phenomena, including telepathy, precognition, clairvoyance, psychokinesis, near-death experiences, reincarnation, and apparitional experiences.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to public affairs:
Below is a list of topics in painting.
A Prakrit ( , }}, }}) is any of several Middle Indo-Aryan languages.Daniels, p.
Palestrina may refer to:
Progressive music is music that subverts genre and expands stylistic boundaries outwards.; ;  Rooted in the idea of a cultural alternative, musical progressiveness embodies a continuous move between explicit and implicit references to genres and strategies derived from various cultural domains, such as European art music, Celtic folk, West Indian, or African.
Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky (; ; , English respelling   ; often &quot;Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky&quot;  in English. His names are also transliterated &quot;Piotr&quot; or &quot;Petr&quot;; &quot;Ilitsch&quot;, &quot;Il'ich&quot; or &quot;Illyich&quot;; and &quot;Tschaikowski&quot;, &quot;Tschaikowsky&quot;, &quot;Chajkovskij&quot; and &quot;Chaikovsky&quot; (and other versions; the transliteration varies among languages).
thumb|185px|[[Cell membranes consist of phospholipid bilayers]]
A pencil is a writing implement or art medium constructed of a narrow, solid pigment core inside a protective casing which prevents the core from being broken and/or from  leaving marks on the user’s hand during use.
In computer science, a pushdown automaton (PDA) is
Protein primary structure is the linear sequence of amino acids in a peptide or protein. By convention, the primary structure of a protein is reported starting from the amino-terminal (N) end to the carboxyl-terminal (C) end.
The Peter principle is a concept in management theory formulated by educator Laurence J. Peter and published in 1969.
Platonic realism is a philosophical term usually used to refer to the idea of realism regarding the existence of universals or abstract objects after the Greek philosopher Plato (c. 427–c.
, , ,
, pp 281-282.
Plutarch (; , Ploútarkhos, ; c. AD 46 – AD 120),Lamberton, Robert.
80,150 ()Alexa, 2015, &quot;Entry: runeberg.org,&quot; at alexa.
Pico (Pine composer) is a text editor for Unix and Unix-based computer systems. It is integrated with the Pine e-mail client, which was designed by the Office of Computing and Communications at the University of Washington.
Power}}
Punt or punting may refer to:
In chemistry, pH () (potential of hydrogen) is a numeric scale used to specify the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution.  It is approximately the negative of the base 10 logarithm of the molar concentration, measured in units of moles per liter, of hydrogen ions.
A pastel (UK: ; US: ) is an art medium in the form of a stick, consisting of pure powdered pigment and a binder. The pigments used in pastels are the same as those used to produce all colored art media, including oil paints; the binder is of a neutral hue and low saturation.
Pen pals (or penpals, pen-pals, penfriends or pen friends) are people who regularly write to each other, particularly via postal mail.
A phenotype () is the composite of an organism's observable characteristics or traits, such as its morphology, development, biochemical or physiological properties, behavior, and products of behavior (such as a bird's nest). A phenotype results from the expression of an organism's genetic code, its genotype, as well as the influence of environmental factors and the interactions between the two.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy into chemical energy that can later be released to fuel the organisms' activities (energy transformation). This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek [phōs, &quot;light&quot;, and σύνθεσις], synthesis, &quot;putting together&quot;.
A poll tax, also known as head tax or capitation, is a tax levied as a fixed sum on every liable individual.
Patriotism is an attachment to a homeland. This attachment can be viewed in terms of different features relating to one's own homeland, including ethnic, cultural, political or historical aspects.
thumb|300px|RNA is [[transcription (genetics)|transcribed in the nucleus; once completely processed, it is transported to the cytoplasm and translated by the ribosome (shown in very pale grey behind the tRNA).]]
A photosynthetic pigment (accessory pigment; chloroplast pigment; antenna pigment) is a pigment that is present in chloroplasts or photosynthetic bacteria and captures the light energy necessary for photosynthesis.
Peter Carroll}}
Intact dilation and extraction (Intact D&amp;E) is a surgical procedure that removes an intact fetus from the uterus. The procedure is used both after late-term miscarriages and in late-term abortions.
Plutocracy (, , 'wealth' + , , 'rule') or plutarchy, is a form of oligarchy and defines a society ruled or controlled by the small minority of the wealthiest citizens. The first known use of the term was in 1631.
The Pareto principle (also known as the 80/20 rule, the law of the vital few, or the principle of factor sparsity)THE APPLICATION OF THE PARETO PRINCIPLE IN SOFTWARE ENGINEERING. Ankunda R.
A prefix is an affix which is placed before the stem of a word. Adding it to the beginning of one word changes it into another word.
(aged 56)
Palaeography (UK) or paleography (US; ultimately from }}, palaiós, &quot;old&quot;, and }}, graphein, &quot;to write&quot;) is the study of ancient and historical handwriting (that is to say, of the forms and processes of writing, not the textual content of documents). Included in the discipline is the practice of deciphering, reading, and dating historical manuscripts,'Palaeography', Oxford English Dictionary.
A pollutant is a substance or energy introduced into the environment that has undesired effects, or adversely affects the usefulness of a resource. A pollutant may cause long- or short-term damage by changing the growth rate of plant or animal species, or by interfering with human amenities, comfort, health, or property values.
(as Brad's Drink) (as Pepsi-Cola) (as Pepsi)
A pub, or public house, is an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic drinks, which traditionally include beer, ale and cider.  It is a relaxed, social drinking establishment and a prominent part of British,Public House Britannica.
Pelvic inflammatory disease or pelvic inflammatory disorder (PID) is an infection of the upper part of the female reproductive system namely the uterus, fallopian tubes, and ovaries, and inside of the pelvis. Often there may be no symptoms.
PID may refer to:
}}
In the fictional Star Trek universe, the impulse drive is the method of propulsion that starships and other spacecraft use when they are travelling below the speed of light. Typically powered by deuterium fusion reactors, impulse engines let ships travel interplanetary distances readily.
PKD may stand for:
Princeton may refer to:
}}
Polyamory (from Greek  , &quot;many, several&quot;, and Latin , &quot;love&quot;) is the practice of or desire for intimate relationships with more than one partner, with the knowledge of all partners. It has been described as &quot;consensual, ethical, and responsible non-monogamy&quot;.
Proteolysis is the breakdown of proteins into smaller polypeptides or amino acids. Uncatalysed, the hydrolysis of peptide bonds is extremely slow, taking hundreds of years.
}}
A pointing device is an input interface (specifically a human interface device) that allows a user to input spatial (i.e.
S11|11 (disambiguation)11 (plural)}}
Note: Names that cannot be confirmed in Wikipedia database nor through given sources are subject to removal. If you would like to add a new name please consider writing about the artist first.
Procedural law or adjective law comprises the rules by which a court hears and determines what happens in civil, lawsuit, criminal or administrative [ The rules are designed to ensure a fair and consistent application of due process] (in the U.S.
The pantoum is a poetic form derived from the pantun, a Malay verse form: specifically from the pantun berkait, a series of interwoven quatrains.
Pottery is the craft of making ceramic material into pots or pottery wares using clay.'Pottery Science: materials, process and products.
En plein air (, French for outdoors, or plein air painting) is the act of painting outdoors. This method contrasts with studio painting or academic rules that might create a predetermined look.
Pacta sunt servanda (Latin for &quot;agreements must be kept&quot;Black's Law Dictionary (8th ed. 2004)), a brocard, is a basic principle of civil law, canon law, and international law.
Pop Song}}
thumb|right|Phospholipase cleavage sites.  Note that an enzyme that displays both PLA1 and PLA2 activities is called a [[Phospholipase B.
The Picts were a tribal confederation of peoples who lived in what is today eastern and northern Scotland during the Late Iron Age and Early Medieval periods. They are thought to have been ethnolinguistically Celtic.
In mathematics, a permutation group is a group G whose elements are permutations of a given set M and whose group operation is the composition of permutations in G (which are thought of as bijective functions from the set M to itself). The group of all permutations of a set M is the symmetric group of M, often written as Sym(M).
thumb|250px|right|Protein phosphorylation
right|thumb|66 MHz Intel Pentium (sSpec=SX837) with the FDIV bug
A percussion instrument is a musical instrument that is sounded by being struck or scraped by a beater (including attached or enclosed beaters or rattles); struck, scraped or rubbed by hand; or struck against another similar instrument. The percussion family is believed to include the oldest musical instruments, following the human voice.
Persia, or Iran, is a country in Western Asia.
(aged 67)
Property law is the area of law that governs the various forms of ownership and tenancy in real property (land as distinct from personal or movable possessions) and in personal property, within the common law legal system. In the civil law system, there is a division between movable and immovable property.
}}
A pantograph (Greek roots παντ- &quot;all, every&quot; and γραφ- &quot;to write&quot;, from their original use for copying writing) is a mechanical linkage connected in a manner based on parallelograms so that the movement of one pen, in tracing an image, produces identical movements in a second pen. If a line drawing is traced by the first point, an identical, enlarged, or miniaturized copy will be drawn by a pen fixed to the other.
The Premier of New South Wales is the head of government in the state of New South Wales, Australia. The Government of New South Wales follows the Westminster system, with a Parliament of New South Wales acting as the legislature.
The Premier of Victoria is the leader of the government in the Australian state of Victoria. The Premier is appointed by the Governor of Victoria, and is the leader of the political party able to secure a majority in the Legislative Assembly.
The Premier of Tasmania is the head of the executive government in the Australian state of Tasmania. By convention, the leader of the party or political grouping which has majority support in the House of Assembly is invited by the Governor of Tasmania to be Premier and principal adviser.
The perihelion is the point in the orbit of a celestial body where it is nearest to its orbital focus, generally a star. It is the opposite of aphelion, which is the point in the orbit where the celestial body is farthest from its focus.
Privatization, also spelt privatisation (in British English), has several meanings. Primarily, it is the process of transferring ownership of a business, enterprise, agency, public service, or public property from the public sector (a government) to the private sector, either to a business that operates for profit or to a nonprofit organization.
[passage tomb.JPG|thumb|250px|right|A simple passage tomb in Carrowmore] near [[Sligo in Ireland]]
In mathematical group theory, given a prime number p, a p-group is a group in which each element has a power of p as its order. That is, for each element g of a p-group, there exists a nonnegative integer n such that the product of pn copies of g, and not less, is equal to the identity element.
A protein phosphatase is a phosphatase enzyme that removes a phosphate group from the phosphorylated amino acid residue of its substrate protein. Protein phosphorylation is one of the most common forms of reversible protein posttranslational modification (PTM), with up to 30% of all proteins being phosphorylated at any given time.
The first Pentium microprocessor was introduced by Intel on March 22, 1993. Dubbed P5, its microarchitecture was the fifth generation for Intel, and the first superscalar IA-32 microarchitecture.
The Pauli exclusion principle is the quantum mechanical principle which states that  two or more identical fermions (particles with half-integer spin) cannot occupy the same quantum state within a quantum system simultaneously. In the case of electrons in atoms, it can be stated as follows: it is impossible for two electrons of a poly-electron atom to have the same values of the four quantum numbers: n, the principal quantum number, , the angular momentum quantum number, m, the magnetic quantum number, and ms, the spin quantum number.
In Greek mythology, Pasiphaë (;  Pasipháē, &quot;wide-shining&quot; derived from pas &quot;all, for all, of all&quot; and phaos &quot;light&quot;)An attribute of the Moon, as Pausanias remarked in passing (i.43.
Primate () is a title or rank bestowed on some archbishops in certain Christian churches. Depending on the particular tradition, it can denote either jurisdictional authority  (title of authority) or (usually) ceremonial precedence (title of honour).
The Permanent Way Institution is a technical Institution which aims to provide technical knowledge, advice and support to all those engaged in rail infrastructure systems worldwide.
The Premier of Queensland is the head of government in the Australian state of Queensland.
Premier
The Premier of Western Australia is the head of the executive branch of government in the Australian state of Western Australia. The Premier has similar functions in Western Australia to those performed by the Prime Minister of Australia at the national level, subject to the different Constitutions.
Pigeonhole sorting is a sorting algorithm that is suitable for sorting lists of elements where the number of elements (n) and the length of the range of possible key values (N) are approximately the same.NIST's Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures: pigeonhole sort It requires O(n + N) time.
Pope Julius I (280 - 12 April 352) served as the Bishop of Rome from 6 February 337 to his death in 352. He was notable for asserting the authority of the pope over the Arian Eastern bishops, and also for setting the date of 25 December for celebrating the Nativity.
(aged 42)
Persistence may refer to:
A plaintiff (Π in legal shorthand) is the party who initiates a lawsuit (also known as an action) before a court. By doing so, the plaintiff seeks a legal remedy, and if successful, the court will issue judgment in favor of the plaintiff and make the appropriate court order (e.
Philosophy of law is a branch of philosophy and jurisprudence that seeks to answer basic questions about law and legal systems, such as &quot;What is law?&quot;, &quot;What are the criteria for legal validity?
Personal property is generally considered property that is movable,&quot;Personal property&quot;. Sir Robert Harry Inglis Palgrave.
Prima facie (, , or ; from ) is a Latin expression meaning on its first encounter or at first sight. The literal translation would be &quot;at first face&quot; or &quot;at first appearance&quot;, from the feminine forms of primus (&quot;first&quot;) and facies (&quot;face&quot;), both in the ablative case.
Product liability is the area of law in which manufacturers, distributors, suppliers, retailers, and others who make products available to the public are held responsible for the injuries those products cause.   Although the word &quot;product&quot; has broad connotations, product liability as an area of law is traditionally limited to products in the form of tangible personal property.
In the law, a proximate cause is an event sufficiently related to an injury that the courts deem the event to be the cause of that injury.  There are two types of causation in the law: cause-in-fact, and proximate (or legal) cause.
Peace is a lack of conflict and freedom from fear of violence between heterogeneous social groups.  Benevolent leaders throughout history have shown restraint establishing regional peace and economic growth through peace treaties that resulted from de-escalating conflicts and multilateral and bilateral peace talks.
The Portland Vase is a Roman cameo glass vase, which is dated to between AD 1 and AD 25, though low BC dates have some scholarly support.The British Museum dates it between AD 1 and AD 25 – collection database (&quot;5–25 AD&quot; per the Highlights section, and Williams in 2009); a date some time between 30 BC and 20 BC was suggested in 1990, following research by William Gudenrath, Kenneth Painter and David Whitehouse, director of the Corning Museum of Glass, Journal of Glass Studies, Vol 32 1990.
Patrimony may refer to:
thumb|300px|A map of the Moon from [[Andrees Allgemeiner Handatlas, 1st edition (1881), predating IAU conventions]]
The North American Aviation P-51 Mustang is an American long-range, single-seat fighter and fighter-bomber used during World War II, the Korean War and other conflicts. The Mustang was designed in 1940 by North American Aviation (NAA) in response to a requirement of the British Purchasing Commission.
Precession is a change in the orientation of the rotational axis of a rotating body. In an appropriate reference frame it can be defined as a change in the first Euler angle, whereas the third Euler angle defines the rotation itself.
}}}}}}
Planet Ring}}
Phoebe may refer to:
In computer programming, a p-code machine, or portable code machine is a virtual machine designed to execute p-code (the assembly language of a hypothetical CPU). This term is applied both generically to all such machines (such as the Java Virtual Machine and MATLAB precompiled code), and to specific implementations, the most famous being the p-Machine of the Pascal-P system, particularly the UCSD Pascal implementation (among whose developers the &quot;p&quot; in &quot;p-code&quot; was construed to mean &quot;pseudo&quot; more often than &quot;portable&quot;, &quot;pseudo-code&quot; thus meaning instructions for a pseudo-machine) .
}}
Pan-Germanism or Pan-Germanicism (; see also Pan-Germanicism) is a pan-nationalist political idea. Pan-Germanists originally sought to unify all the German and possibly also Germanic-speaking peoples in a single nation-state known as Großdeutschland.
,
In mathematics, one can define a product of group subsets in a natural way. If S and T are subsets of a group G, then their product is the subset of G defined by
In American Constitutional law, the political question doctrine is closely linked to the concept of justiciability, as it comes down to a question of whether or not the court system is an appropriate forum in which to hear the case.  This is because the court system only has authority to hear and decide a legal question, not a political question.
Pessimism is a mental attitude. Pessimists anticipate undesirable outcomes from a given situation which is generally referred to as situational pessimism or believes that undesirable things are going to happen to them in life more than desirable ones.
The Franc Poincaré is a unit of account that was used in the international regulation of liability. It is defined as 65.
Geological periods are annotated (by abbreviation and colour) above. The Permian–Triassic extinction event is the most significant event for marine genera, with just over 50% (according to this source) failing to survive.
&quot;United States Social Security Death Index,&quot; index, FamilySearch (https://familysearch.org/pal:/MM9.
}}
A politburo  or political bureau is the executive committee for Communist Parties.
}}
thumb|right|Illustration of Proteus by [[Andrea Alciato from The Book of Emblems (1531)]]
Tumor protein p53, also known as p53, cellular tumor antigen p53 (UniProt name), phosphoprotein p53,  tumor suppressor p53, antigen NY-CO-13, or transformation-related protein 53 (TRP53), is any isoform of a protein encoded by homologous genes in various organisms, such as TP53 (humans) and Trp53 (mice). This homolog (originally thought to be, and often spoken of as, a single protein) is crucial in multicellular organisms, where it prevents cancer formation, thus, functions as a tumor suppressor.
In mathematics, pointless topology (also called point-free or pointfree topology, or locale theory) is an approach to topology that avoids mentioning points. The name 'pointless topology' is due to John von Neumann.
Phobos may refer to:
Pizza is a yeasted flatbread typically topped with tomato sauce and cheese and baked in an oven. It is commonly topped with a selection of meats, vegetables and condiments.
Phase modulation (PM) is a modulation pattern that encodes information as variations in the instantaneous phase of a carrier wave.
A phosphodiesterase inhibitor is a drug that blocks one or more of the five subtypes of the enzyme phosphodiesterase (PDE), thereby preventing the inactivation of the intracellular second messengers cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) by the respective PDE subtype(s).
A piston is a component of reciprocating engines, reciprocating pumps, gas compressors and pneumatic cylinders, among other similar mechanisms.  It is the moving component that is contained by a cylinder and is made gas-tight by piston rings.
PK or pk may refer to:
Psi or PSI or Ψ may refer to:
)
Pente is a strategy board game for two or more players, created in 1977 by Gary Gabrel, a dishwasher at Hideaway Pizza, in Stillwater, Oklahoma.http://www.
Pompatus ,  is a nonsense word coined by Steve Miller and most famously used in his 1973 hit single &quot;The Joker&quot;. The word was inspired by a similar nonsense word, sometimes transliterated as &quot;puppetutes,&quot; in the 1954 song &quot;The Letter&quot; by The Medallions.
, With RV:
Portuguese may refer to:
Pots most commonly refers to pottery, the ceramic ware made by potters
A private is a soldier of the lowest military rank (equivalent to NATO Rank Grades ORظ
A production team is the group of technical staff who produce a play, television show, recording, or film.  Generally the term refers to all individuals responsible for the technical aspects of creating of a particular product, regardless of where in the process their expertize is required, or how long they are involved in the project.
Pinconning cheese is an aged yellow Colby-style, semi-soft whole cow's milk cheese named for Pinconning, Michigan, in the United States, where it was first produced. It was developed by Dan Horn in 1915 as an aged version of Colby.
In religion, a prophet is an individual who has been contacted by a divine being in order to speak on the entity's behalf, serving as an intermediary with humanity by delivering messages or teachings from the supernatural source to other people.prophet – definition of prophet by the Free Online Dictionary, Thesaurus and Encyclopediaprophet – Definition from the Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary The message that the prophet conveys is called a prophecy, which transports—at least in Judaism—a message beyond mere pagan soothsaying, augury, divination, or forecasting, and, most prominently in the neviim of the Tanakh, often comprises issues of social justice.
In law as practiced in countries that follow the English models, a pleading is a formal written statement of a party's claims or defenses to another party's claims in a civil action. The parties' pleadings in a case define the issues to be adjudicated in the action.
At the most basic level Personal Communications Service or PCS describes a set of wireless communications capabilities which allows some combination of terminal mobility, personal mobility, and service profile management. More specifically, PCS refers to any of several types of wireless voice and/or wireless data communications systems, typically incorporating digital technology, providing services similar to advanced cellular mobile or paging services.
PCS may refer to:
Puck may refer to:
The Polaris Sales Agreement was an agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom which began the UK Polaris programme. The agreement formally arranged for the Polaris missile system to be provided to the UK.
The Proto-Indo-Europeans were the prehistoric people of Eurasia who spoke Proto-Indo-European (PIE), the ancestor of the Indo-European languages according to linguistic reconstruction.
Passive voice is a grammatical voice common in many languages. In a clause with passive voice, the grammatical subject expresses the theme or patient of the main verb – that is, the person or thing that undergoes the action or has its state changed.
In computability theory, primitive recursive functions are a class of functions that are defined using primitive recursion and composition as central operations and are a strict subset of the total µ-recursive functions (µ-recursive functions are also called partial recursive). Primitive recursive functions form an important building block on the way to a full formalization of computability.
Peisistratus was a tyrant of Athens, Greece, three different times between 561 and 528 BC.
The  is the head of government of Japan. The Prime Minister is appointed by the Emperor of Japan after being designated by the National Diet and must enjoy the confidence of the House of Representatives to remain in office.
Protein targeting or protein sorting is the biological mechanism by which proteins are transported to the appropriate destinations in the cell or outside of it. Proteins can be targeted to the inner space of an organelle, different intracellular membranes, plasma membrane, or to exterior of the cell via secretion.
Pinochle () or binocle (sometimes pinocle, or penuchle) is a  trick-taking card game typically for two to four players and played with a 48-card deck. It is derived from the card game bezique; players score points by trick-taking and also by forming combinations of cards into melds.
Peptidoglycan, also known as murein, is a polymer consisting of sugars and amino acids that forms a mesh-like layer outside the plasma membrane of most bacteria, forming the cell wall. The sugar component consists of alternating residues of β-(1,4) linked N-acetylglucosamine NAG and N-acetylmuramic acid NAM .
The initials PDE can stand for:
The Panama Canal () is an artificial  waterway in Panama that connects the Atlantic Ocean with the Pacific Ocean. The canal cuts across the Isthmus of Panama and is a key conduit for international maritime trade.
thumb|100px|[[Plato]]
A potato chip  (American English) or crisp (British English) is a thin slice of potato that has been deep fried or baked until crunchy. Potato chips are commonly served as a snack, side dish, or appetizer.
Prohibition is the illegality of the manufacturing, storage in barrels or bottles, transportation, sale, possession, and consumption of alcohol including alcoholic beverages, or a period of time during which such illegality was enforced.
Pale Fire is a 1962 novel by Vladimir Nabokov. The novel is presented as a 999-line poem titled &quot;Pale Fire&quot;, written by the fictional poet John Shade, with a foreword and lengthy commentary written by Shade's neighbor and academic colleague, Charles Kinbote.
A preservative is a substance or a chemical that is added to products such as food, beverages, pharmaceutical drugs, paints, biological samples, cosmetics, wood, and many other products to prevent decomposition by microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes. In general, preservation is implemented in two modes, chemical and physical.
The &quot;Proteobacteria&quot; are a major phylum of Gram-negative bacteria. The name of the phylum has never been validly published as no type genus has been proposed, thus it must be styled in quotation marks as the name has no standing in nomenclature.
In mathematical physics and mathematics, the Pauli matrices are a set of three  complex matrices which are Hermitian and unitary.  Usually indicated by the Greek letter sigma (), they are occasionally denoted by tau () when used in connection with isospin symmetries.
frame|right|A pie menu.
Pollution is the introduction of contaminants into the natural environment that cause adverse change. Pollution can take the form of chemical substances or energy, such as noise, heat or light.
thumb|300px|A selection of polearms, mostly halberds.
PHD or PhD may refer to:
Personal jurisdiction is a court's jurisdiction over the parties to a lawsuit, as opposed to subject-matter jurisdiction, which is jurisdiction over the law and facts involved in the suit. If a court does not have personal jurisdiction over a party, its rulings or decrees cannot be enforced upon that party, except by comity; i.
Pell's equation (also called the Pell–Fermat equation) is any Diophantine equation of the form
A telephone card, calling card or phonecard for short, is a credit card size plastic or paper card, used to pay for telephone services (often international or long distance calling). It is not necessary to have the physical card except with a stored-value system; knowledge of the access telephone number to dial and the PIN is sufficient.
The peppered moth (Biston betularia) is a temperate species of night-flying moth. Peppered moth evolution is an example of population genetics and natural selection.
Power Macintosh, later Power Mac, is a line of Apple Macintosh workstation-class  personal computers based on various models of PowerPC microprocessors that were developed, marketed, and supported by Apple Inc. from March 1994 until August 2006.
In genetics, a promoter is a region of DNA that initiates transcription of a particular gene. Promoters are located near the transcription start sites of genes, on the same strand and upstream on the DNA (towards the 5' region of the sense strand).
Persuasion is an umbrella term of influence.  Persuasion can attempt to influence a person's beliefs, attitudes, intentions, motivations, or behaviors.
}}
thumb|[[C-4 (explosive)|C-4 plastic explosive (the off-white rectangular blocks) being used to destroy unexploded artillery components.]]
Post-structuralism is a label formulated by American academics to denote the heterogeneous works of a series of mid-20th-century French and continental philosophers and critical theorists who came to international prominence in the 1960s and 1970s.Bensmaïa, Réda Poststructuralism, article published in Kritzman, Lawrence (ed.
Peace process may refer to:
In topology and related areas of mathematics, a product space is the cartesian product of a family of topological spaces equipped with a natural topology called the product topology.  This topology differs from another, perhaps more obvious, topology called the box topology, which can also be given to a product space and which agrees with the product topology when the product is over only finitely many spaces.
}}
A pidgin , or pidgin language, is a grammatically simplified means of communication that develops between two or more groups that do not have a language in common: typically, a mixture of simplified languages or a simplified primary language with other languages' elements included. It is most commonly employed in situations such as trade, or where both groups speak languages different from the language of the country in which they reside (but where there is no common language between the groups).
Polish  may refer to:
Category:Temporary maintenance holdings
}}
In algebra, a prime ideal is a subset of a ring that shares many important properties of a prime number in the ring of integers. The prime ideals for the integers are the sets that contain all the multiples of a given prime number, together with the zero ideal.
Psychotherapy is the use of psychological methods, particularly when based on regular personal interaction, to help a person change and overcome problems in desired ways. Psychotherapy aims to improve an individual's well-being and mental health, to resolve or mitigate troublesome behaviors, beliefs, compulsions, thoughts, or emotions, and to improve relationships and social skills.
__NOTOC__
Polywater was a hypothesized polymerized form of water that was the subject of much scientific controversy during the late 1960s. By 1969 the popular press had taken notice and sparked fears of a &quot;polywater gap&quot; in the USA.
Pathological science is an area of research where &quot;people are tricked into false results ... by subjective effects, wishful thinking or threshold interactions.
Pneumatic tubes (or capsule pipelines; also known as pneumatic tube transport or PTT) are systems that propel cylindrical containers through networks of tubes by compressed air or by partial vacuum. They are used for transporting solid objects, as opposed to conventional pipelines, which transport fluids.
Pinzgauer may refer to:
Patrilineality, also known as the male line, the spear side, or agnatic kinship, is a common kinship system in which an individual's family membership derives from and is recorded through his or her father's lineage. It generally involves the inheritance of property, rights, names, or titles by persons related through male kin.
Plate tectonics (from the Late Latin tectonicus, from the  &quot;pertaining to building&quot;) is a scientific theory describing the large-scale motion of seven large plates and the movements of a larger number of smaller plates of the Earth's lithosphere, over the last hundreds of millions of years. The theoretical model builds on the concept of continental drift, an idea developed during the first few decades of the 20th century.
Pong is one of the earliest arcade video games and the  first sports arcade video game. It is a table tennis sports game featuring simple two-dimensional graphics.
Post House}}
Polycarp (, Polýkarpos; ; AD 69  155) was a 2nd-century Christian bishop of Smyrna. According to the Martyrdom of Polycarp he died a martyr, bound and burned at the stake, then stabbed when the fire failed to touch him.
Pacifism is opposition to war, militarism, or violence. The word pacifism was coined by the French peace campaigner Émile Arnaud (1864–1921) and adopted by other peace activists at the tenth Universal Peace Congress in Glasgow in 1901.
Piet Hein is the name of:
Proteinoids, or thermal proteins, are protein-like, often cross-linked molecules formed abiotically from amino acids. A slightly altered definition of proteinoids is from Hayakawa et al.
}}
The Prince Albert (PA) is one of the most common male genital piercings.Gage, Simon; Richards, Lisa; Wilmot, Howard; and Boy George (2002).
Paint Your Wagon is a Broadway musical comedy, with book and lyrics by Alan J. Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe.
Pacific Overtures is a musical written by Stephen Sondheim and John Weidman.  The show is set in Japan beginning in 1853 and follows the difficult westernization of Japan, told from the point of view of the Japanese.
In psychotherapy, paradoxical intention is the deliberate practice of a neurotic habit or thought, undertaken to identify and remove it. The concept was termed by Dr.
}}
thumb|[[Hewlett-Packard|HP PA-RISC 7300LC Microprocessor]]
Preacher is an American comic book series published by  Vertigo, an imprint of DC Comics.  The series was created by writer Garth Ennis and artist Steve Dillon with painted covers by Glenn Fabry.
A preacher usually identifies a person who delivers sermons or homilies on religious topics to an assembly of people. Less common are preachers who preach on the street, or those whose message is not necessarily religious, but who preach components such as a moral or social worldview or philosophy.
}}
The Pelton wheel is an impulse-type water turbine. It was invented by Lester Allan Pelton in the 1870s.
Piezoelectricity  is the electric charge that accumulates in certain solid materials (such as crystals, certain ceramics, and biological matter such as bone, DNA and various proteins) in response to applied mechanical stress. The word piezoelectricity means electricity resulting from pressure.
In mathematics, a product is the result of multiplying, or an expression that identifies factors to be multiplied.  Thus, for instance, 6 is the product of 2 and 3 (the result of multiplication), and x\cdot (2+x) is the product of x and (2+x) (indicating that the two factors should be multiplied together).
In geometry, a 4-polytope (sometimes also called a polychoron, polycell, or polyhedroid) is a four-dimensional polytope. It is a connected and closed figure, composed of lower-dimensional polytopal elements: vertices, edges, faces (polygons), and cells (polyhedra).
thumb|Punctuated equilibrium, bottom, consists of [[Morphology (biology)|morphological stability and rare bursts of evolutionary change via rapid cladogenesis, and is contrasted to the much more gradual, continuous phyletic gradualism, top]]
}}
Philosophy of education can refer either to the application of philosophy to the problem of education, examining definitions, goals and chains of meaning used in education by teachers, administrators and policymakers. It can involve the examination of particular visions or approaches by researchers and policy-makers in education that often address contemporary debates and assumptions about innovations and practices in teaching and learning by considering the profession within broader philosophical or sociocultural contexts.
Personality psychology is a branch of psychology that studies personality and its variation among individuals. Its areas of focus include:
In linguistics and grammar, a pronoun (abbreviated ) is a word that substitutes for a noun or noun phrase. It is a particular case of a pro-form.
Pelagianism is the belief that original sin did not taint human nature and that mortal will is still capable of choosing good or evil without special divine aid. This theological theory is named after the British monk Pelagius (354–420 or 440), although he denied, at least at some point in his life, many of the doctrines associated with his name.
In Christian theology, patripassianism (as it is referred to in the Western church) or Sabellianism in the Eastern church (also known as modalism, modalistic monarchianism, or modal monarchism) is the nontrinitarian or anti-trinitarian belief that God the Father, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit are three different modes or aspects of one monadic God, as perceived by the believer, rather than three distinct persons within the Godhead - that there are no real or substantial differences between the three, such that there is no substantial identity for the Spirit or the Son.G.
thumb|The [[Nicene Creed, held by Emperor Constantine (center) in this icon, specifically rejected psilanthropism.The creed: the apostolic faith in contemporary theology by Berard L.
A pendulum clock is a clock that uses a pendulum, a swinging weight, as its timekeeping element.  The advantage of a pendulum for timekeeping is that it is a harmonic oscillator; it swings back and forth in a precise time interval dependent on its length, and resists swinging at other rates.
A programmable logic controller (PLC), or programmable controller is an industrial digital computer which has been ruggedised and adapted for the control of manufacturing processes, such as assembly lines, or robotic devices, or any activity that requires high reliability control and ease of programming and process fault diagnosis.
Plenum may refer to:
In mathematical logic, the Peano axioms, also known as the Dedekind–Peano axioms or the Peano postulates, are a set of axioms for the natural numbers presented by the 19th century Italian mathematician Giuseppe Peano. These axioms have been used nearly unchanged in a number of metamathematical investigations, including research into fundamental questions of whether number theory is consistent and complete.
A prisoner of war (POW, PoW, PW, P/W, WP, PsW, enemy prisoner of war (EPW) or &quot;missing-captured&quot;) is a person, whether combatant or non-combatant, who is held in custody by a belligerent power during or immediately after an armed conflict. The earliest recorded usage of the phrase &quot;prisoner of war&quot; dates to 1660.
Privacy is the ability of an individual or group to seclude themselves, or information about themselves, and thereby express themselves selectively. The boundaries and content of what is considered private differ among cultures and individuals, but share common themes.
Pp1}}
Plankton (singular plankter) are the diverse collection of organisms that live in the water column of large bodies of water and are unable to swim against a current. They provide a crucial source of food to many large aquatic organisms, such as fish and whales.
Positivism is a philosophy which states that the only authentic knowledge is scientific knowledge. Positivism was central to the foundation of academic sociology.
The Pauli effect is a term referring to the supposed tendency of technical equipment to encounter critical failure in the presence of certain people. The term was coined after mysterious anecdotal stories involving Austrian theoretical physicist Wolfgang Pauli, describing numerous instances in which demonstrations involving equipment suffered technical problems only when he was present.
The Pearl Index, also called the Pearl rate, is the most common technique used in clinical trials for reporting the effectiveness of a birth control method.
In computing, plain text is the data (e.g.
The piña colada (;}}}}  , &quot;pineapple,&quot; and  , &quot;strained&quot;) is a sweet cocktail made with rum, coconut cream or coconut milk, and pineapple juice, usually served either blended or shaken with ice. It may be garnished with either a pineapple wedge, maraschino cherry, or both.
PackBits is a fast, simple lossless compression scheme for run-length encoding of data.
The term phonation has slightly different meanings depending on the subfield of phonetics.  Among some phoneticians, phonation is the process by which the vocal folds produce certain sounds through quasi-periodic vibration.
In abstract algebra, a principal ideal domain, or PID, is an integral domain in which every ideal is principal, i.e.
The Pioneer program is a series of United States unmanned space missions that were designed for planetary exploration. There were a number of such missions in the program, but the most notable were Pioneer 10 and Pioneer 11, which explored the outer planets and left the solar system.
The Lockheed P-38 Lightning is a World War II-era American piston-engined fighter aircraft.  Developed to a United States Army Air Corps requirement, the P-38 had distinctive twin booms and a central nacelle containing the cockpit and armament.
Prayer (from the Latin precari &quot;to ask earnestly, beg, entreat&quot;) is an invocation or act that seeks to activate a rapport with an object of worship through deliberate communication.
• }}
Panjabi may refer to:
In abstract algebra, power associativity is a property of a binary operation which is a weak form of associativity.
Polish notation (PN), also known as normal Polish notation (NPN), Łukasiewicz notation, Warsaw notation, Polish prefix notation or simply prefix notation, is a mathematical notation in which operators precede their operands, in contrast to reverse Polish notation (RPN) in which operators follow their operands. It does not need any parentheses as long as each operator has a fixed number of operands.
A primary school (or elementary school in American English and often in Canadian English) is a school in which children receive primary or elementary education from the age of about five to twelve, coming  after preschool and before secondary school. (In some countries there is an intermediate stage of middle school between primary and secondary education.
Preprocessing can refer to the following topics in computer science:
, pl. Piemontesi
Palestinian views on the peace process refer to the views of Palestinians in the ongoing peace talks with Israel.
In mathematics, it is possible to combine several rings into one large product ring. This is done as follows: if I is some index set and Ri is a ring for every i in I, then the cartesian product  can be turned into a ring by defining the operations coordinate-wise.
Posthumanism or post-humanism (meaning &quot;after humanism&quot; or &quot;beyond humanism&quot;) is a term with at least seven definitions according to philosopher Francesca Ferrando:
A parameter (from the Ancient Greek [Greek|παρά], para: &quot;beside&quot;, &quot;subsidiary&quot;; and [Greek|μέτρον], metron: &quot;measure&quot;), generally, is any characteristic that can help in defining or classifying a particular system (meaning an event, project, object, situation, etc.).
Procedure may refer to:
The Purple Heart is a United States military decoration awarded in the name of the President to those wounded or killed while serving, on or after April 5, 1917, with the U.S.
thumb|right|200px|An [[electric potential|electrostatic potential map of the nitrate ion (NO3−). Areas coloured translucent red, around the outside of the red oxygen atoms themselves, signify the regions of most negative electrostatic potential]]
Persecution of Christians can be traced historically based on the biblical account of Jesus from the first century of the Christian era to the present day. Early Christians were persecuted for their faith at the hands of both Jews from whose religion Christianity arose and the Romans who controlled many of the land across which early Christianity was distributed.
A pet or companion animal is an animal kept primarily for a person's company, protection, or entertainment rather than as a working animal, sport animal, livestock, or laboratory animal. Popular pets are often noted for their attractive appearances, and their loyal or playful personalities.
A photograph or photo is an image created by light falling on a light-sensitive surface, usually photographic film or an electronic medium such as a CCD or a CMOS chip. Most photographs are created using a camera, which uses a lens to focus the scene's visible wavelengths of light into a reproduction of what the human eye would see.
A paradigm shift, a concept identified by the American physicist and philosopher Thomas Kuhn (1922–1996), is a fundamental change in the basic concepts and experimental practices of a scientific discipline. Kuhn contrasted these shifts, which characterize a scientific revolution, to the activity of normal science, which he described as scientific work done within a prevailing framework (or paradigm).
Public speaking (also called oratory or oration) is the process or act of performing a speech to a live audience. This type of speech is deliberately structured with three general purposes: to inform, to persuade and to entertain.
Pecorino Romano () is a hard, salty Italian cheese, often used for grating, made out of sheep's milk (the Italian word pecora, from which the name derives, means sheep). Pecorino Romano was a staple in the diet for the legionaries of ancient Rome.
Parity  may refer to:
The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is one of the two main parts of the nervous system, the other part is the central nervous system (CNS). The PNS consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord.
frame|[[Dispersion (water waves)|Frequency dispersion in groups of gravity waves on the surface of deep water. The red dot moves with the phase velocity, and the green dots propagate with the group velocity.
thumb|250px|Aircraft use pitot tubes to measure airspeed. The example, from an [[Airbus A380, combines a pitot tube (right) with a static port and an angle-of-attack vane (left).
Psychohistory is the study of the psychological motivations of historical events.http://www3.
A public limited company (legally abbreviated to plc) is a type of public company under the United Kingdom company law, some Commonwealth jurisdictions, and the Republic of Ireland. It is a limited liability company whose shares may be freely  sold and traded to the public (although a plc may also be privately held, often by another plc), with a minimum share capital of £50,000 and usually with the letters PLC after its name.
, , , and .
The Poeciliidae are a family of freshwater fishes of the order Cyprinodontiformes, the tooth-carps, and include well-known live-bearing aquarium fish, such as the guppy, molly, platy, and swordtail. The original distribution of the family was the southeastern United States to north of Río de la Plata, Argentina, and Africa, including Madagascar.
thumb|250px|Points in the polar coordinate system with pole O and polar axis L. In green, the point with radial coordinate 3 and angular coordinate 60 degrees or (3,60°).
Renaissance Man}}
The PowerBook (known as Macintosh PowerBook before 1997) was a line of Macintosh laptop computers that was designed, manufactured and sold by Apple Computer, Inc. from 1991 to 2006.
A prayer wheel is a cylindrical wheel () on a spindle made from metal, wood, stone, leather or coarse cotton. Traditionally, the mantra Om Mani Padme Hum is written in Sanskrit on the outside of the wheel.
A postage stamp is a small piece of paper that is purchased and displayed on an item of mail as evidence of payment of postage. Typically, stamps are printed on special custom-made paper, show a national designation and a denomination (value) on the front, and have an adhesive gum on the back or are self-adhesive.
Pavo may refer to:
thumb|Porto Ottiolu
(1979–2007)South America (2009–present)
Perception (from the Latin perceptio) is the organization, identification, and interpretation of sensory information in order to represent and understand the presented information, or the environment.
[brass - from the top left: Baroque trumpet in D, modern trumpets in B and D (same pitch D as Baroque), piccolo trumpet in high B, Flugelhorn in B; right: cornet in B.]
A pig is any of the animals in the genus Sus, within the even-toed ungulate family Suidae. Pigs include the domestic pig and its ancestor, the common Eurasian wild boar (Sus scrofa), along with other species; related creatures outside the genus include the peccary, the babirusa, and the warthog.
}}
Pizza cheese encompasses several varieties and types of cheeses and dairy products that are designed and manufactured for use specifically on pizza. These include processed and modified cheese such as mozzarella-like processed cheeses and mozzarella variants.
Pinuccio Sciola (15 March 1942 – 13 May 2016) was an Italian sculptor and muralist from San Sperate, Sardinia.  His work has been mentioned as a major attraction of the nearby town of Assemini.
Punta Sardegna is a panoramic site on the coast of northern Sardinia, near Porto Rafael, Palau.
right|thumb|500px|Plymouth Hoe from [[Mount Batten.]]
)
In descriptive statistics, the quartiles  of a ranked set of data values are the three points that divide the data set into four equal groups, each group comprising a quarter of the data. A quartile is a type of quantile.
In algebra, a quadratic equation (from the Latin quadratus for &quot;square&quot;) is any equation having the form
)
Queen may refer to:
Quantization}}
In statistics and the theory of probability, quantiles are cutpoints dividing the range of a probability distribution into contiguous intervals with equal probabilities, or dividing the observations in a sample in the same way. There is one less quantile than the number of groups created.
Q (named cue &quot;Q&quot; Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;que,&quot; op. cit.
The history of Qatar spans from its first duration of human occupation to its formation as a modern state. Human occupation of Qatar dates back to 50,000 years ago, and Stone Age encampments and tools have been unearthed in the peninsula.
Natives of the Arabian Peninsula, many Qataris are descended from a number of migratory tribes that came to Qatar in the 18th century to escape the harsh conditions of the neighboring areas of Nejd and Al-Hasa. Some are descended from Omani tribes.
The political system of Qatar is either an absolute monarchy or a constitutional monarchy, with the Emir of Qatar as head of state and head of government. Under the 2003 constitutional referendum it should be a constitutional monarchy.
Telephones - main lines in use:
This article is about transport in Qatar.
Qatar achieved full independence from the United Kingdom on 3 September 1971. Arab states were among the first to recognize Qatar, and the country gained admittance to the United Nations and the Arab League in the same year.
Quaternary () is the current and most recent of the three periods of the Cenozoic Era in the geologic time scale of the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS). It follows the Neogene Period and spans from 2.
A quotation is the repetition of one  expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by (punctuated with) quotation marks.
Quantum mechanics (QM; also known as quantum physics or quantum theory), including quantum field theory, is a branch of physics which is the fundamental theory of nature at the small scales and energy levels of atoms and subatomic particles.
Quilting is the process of sewing two or more layers of fabric together to make a thicker padded material, usually to create a quilt or quilted garment. Typically quilting is done with three layers: the top fabric or quilt top, batting or insulating material and backing material, but many different styles are adopted.
QuakeC is an interpreted language developed in 1996 by John Carmack of id Software to program parts of the video game Quake. Using QuakeC, a programmer is able to customize Quake to great extents by adding weapons, changing game logic and physics, and programming complex scenarios.
}}
QWERTY is a keyboard layout for Latin-script alphabets. The name comes from the order of the first six keys on the top left letter row of the keyboard (     ).
Quanta is the plural of quantum.
Quantum computing studies theoretical computation systems (quantum computers) that make direct use of quantum-mechanical phenomena, such as superposition and entanglement, to perform operations on data. Quantum computers are different from binary digital electronic computers based on transistors.
QT or Qt may refer to:
In mathematics, especially in abstract algebra, a quasigroup is an algebraic structure resembling a group in the sense that &quot;division&quot; is always possible. Quasigroups differ from groups mainly in that they need not be associative.
A  (, , ) was a public official in Ancient Rome. The position served different functions depending on the period.
Q.E.
Quoin or Du Quoin may refer to:
The quadrivium (plural: quadrivia) is the four subjects, or arts, taught after teaching the trivium. The word is Latin, meaning four ways, and its use for the four subjects has been attributed to Boethius or Cassiodorus in the 6th century.
thumb|The [[Zebra is a quadruped.]]
A quarantine is used to separate and restrict the movement of people; it is a 'state of enforced isolation'.Merriam Webster definition | http://www.
A quasar () (also quasi-stellar object or QSO) is an active galactic nucleus of very high luminosity. A quasar consists of a supermassive black hole surrounded by an orbiting accretion disk of gas.
Quinquagesima is one of the names used in the Western Church for the Sunday before Ash Wednesday.  It is also called Quinquagesima Sunday, Quinquagesimae, Estomihi, Shrove Sunday, or the Sunday next before Lent.
Quassia ( or ) is a flora genus in the family Simaroubaceae. Its size is disputed; some botanists treat it as consisting of only one species, Quassia amara from tropical South America, while others treat it in a wide circumscription as a pantropical genus containing up to 40 species of trees and shrubs.
A quisling (; ) is a term originating from Norway, which is used in Scandinavian languages and in English for a person who collaborates with an enemy occupying force – or more generally as a synonym for traitor. The word originates from the surname of the Norwegian war-time leader Vidkun Quisling, who headed a domestic Nazi collaborationist regime during World War II.
Quadrangle or The Quadrangle may refer to :
A quill pen is a writing implement made from a moulted flight feather (preferably a primary wing-feather) of a large bird. Quills were used for writing with ink before the invention of the dip pen, the metal-nibbed pen, the fountain pen, and, eventually, the ballpoint pen.
Quo vadis?  (, ) is a Latin phrase meaning &quot;Where are you going?
QED may refer to:
Winton, Queensland, Australia
QED is a line-oriented computer text editor that was developed by Butler Lampson and L. Peter Deutsch for the Berkeley Timesharing System running on the SDS 940.
A quatrain is a type of stanza, or a complete poem, consisting of four lines.
In theoretical physics, quantum chromodynamics (QCD) is the theory of the strong interaction between quarks and gluons, the fundamental particles that make up composite hadrons such as the proton, neutron and pion.  QCD is a type of quantum field theory called a non-abelian gauge theory, with symmetry group SU(3).
In computer science, a queue ( ) is a particular kind of abstract data type or collection in which the entities in the collection are kept in order and the principle (or only) operations on the collection are the addition of entities to the rear terminal position, known as enqueue, and removal of entities from the front terminal position, known as dequeue. This makes the queue a First-In-First-Out (FIFO) data structure.
Relativity}}
In particle physics, quantum electrodynamics (QED) is the relativistic quantum field theory of electrodynamics. In essence, it describes how light and matter interact and is the first theory where full agreement between quantum mechanics and special relativity is achieved.
A quine is a non-empty computer program which takes no input and produces a copy of its own source code as its only output. The standard terms for these programs in the computability theory and computer science literature are &quot;self-replicating programs&quot;, &quot;self-reproducing programs&quot;, and &quot;self-copying programs&quot;.
In abstract algebra, the field of fractions of an integral domain is the smallest field in which it can be embedded.  The elements of the field of fractions of the integral domain  R  are equivalence classes (see the construction below) written as \frac{a}{b}  with  a  and  b  in  R  and  b\neq0.
In number theory, the law of quadratic reciprocity is a theorem about modular arithmetic that gives conditions for the solvability of quadratic equations modulo prime numbers. There are a number of equivalent statements of the theorem.
In physics and computer science, quantum information is information that is held in the state of a quantum system. Quantum information is the basic entity of study in quantum information theory, and can be manipulated using engineering techniques known as quantum information processing.
Quinolone may refer to:
The Quarterback}}
In Euclidean plane geometry, a quadrilateral is a polygon with four edges (or sides) and four vertices or corners. Sometimes, the term quadrangle is used, by analogy with triangle, and sometimes tetragon for consistency with pentagon (5-sided), hexagon (6-sided) and so on.
Quantum teleportation is a process by which quantum information (e.g.
In quantum computing, a qubit () or quantum bit (sometimes qbit) is a unit of quantum information—the quantum analogue of the classical bit.  A qubit is a two-state quantum-mechanical system, such as the polarization of a single photon: here the two states are vertical polarization and horizontal polarization.
Protein quaternary structure is the number and arrangement of multiple folded protein subunits in a multi-subunit complex. It includes organisations from simple dimers to large homooligomers and complexes with defined or variable numbers of subunits.
Quest for Glory is a series of hybrid adventure/role-playing video games, which were designed by Corey and Lori Ann Cole. The series was created in the Sierra Creative Interpreter, a toolset developed at Sierra specifically to assist with adventure game development.
A quango or QUANGO (less often QuANGO or QANGO) is a quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisation. The concept is most often applied in the United Kingdom and, to a lesser degree, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, the United States, and other English-speaking countries.
A quiver is a container for holding arrows, bolts, or darts. It can be carried on an archer's body, the bow, or the ground, depending on the type of shooting and the archer's personal preference.
Quid may refer to:
,  or
Quincy may refer to:
Quimby may refer to:
Quail is a collective name for several genera of mid-sized birds generally placed in the order Galliformes.
Quagmire may refer to:
thumb|300px|right|Modern crossbow bolt compared to a 1 [[eurocent coin]]
The quasispecies model is a description of the process of the Darwinian evolution of certain self-replicating entities within the framework of physical chemistry.  Put simply, a quasispecies is a large group or &quot;cloud&quot; of related genotypes that exist in an environment of high mutation rate, where a large fraction of offspring are expected to contain one or more mutations relative to the parent.
}}
Quantum gravity (QG) is a field of theoretical physics that seeks to describe gravity according to the principles of quantum mechanics, and where quantum effects cannot be ignored.
Quality of service (QoS) is the description or measurement of the overall performance of a service, such as a telephony or computer network or a Cloud computing service, particularly the performance seen by the users of the network. To quantitatively measure quality of service, several related aspects of the network service are often considered, such as error rates, bit rate, throughput, transmission delay, availability, jitter, etc.
Quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) is both an analog and a digital modulation scheme. It conveys two analog message signals, or two digital bit streams, by changing (modulating) the amplitudes of two carrier waves, using the amplitude-shift keying (ASK) digital modulation scheme or amplitude modulation (AM) analog modulation scheme.
QAM may refer to:
Quantization is the process of constraining an input from a continuous or otherwise-large set of values (such as the real numbers) to a discrete set (such as the integers). It is similar to discretization.
Quantum theory may mean:
In amateur radio, QRP operation refers to transmitting at reduced power while attempting to maximize one's effective range.  The term QRP derives from the standard Q code used in radio communications, where &quot;QRP&quot; and &quot;QRP?
The initialism QCD may refer to:
Quicksilver may refer to:
In music, a quartet or quartette (, , , , ) is an ensemble of four singers or instrumental performers; or a musical composition for four voices or instruments.
Quantum entanglement is a physical phenomenon that occurs when pairs or groups of particles are generated or interact in ways such that the quantum state of each particle cannot be described independently of the others, even when the particles are separated by a large distance—instead, a quantum state must be described for the system as a whole.
Insurgente]]; U.S.
A quality management system (QMS) is a collection of business processes focused on consistently meeting customer requirements and enhancing their satisfaction. It is aligned with an organization's purpose and strategic direction (ISO9001:2015).
}}
QSIG is an ISDN based signaling protocol for signaling between private branch exchanges (PBXs) in a private integrated services network (PISN). It makes use of the connection-level Q.
A quasiperiodic crystal, or quasicrystal, is a structure that is ordered but not periodic. A quasicrystalline pattern can continuously fill all available space, but it lacks translational symmetry.
Recreation is an activity of leisure, leisure being discretionary time. The &quot;need to do something for recreation&quot; is an essential element of human biology and psychology.
In economics, a recession is a business cycle contraction which results in a general slowdown in economic activity. Macroeconomic indicators such as GDP (gross domestic product), investment spending, capacity utilization, household income, business profits, and inflation fall, while bankruptcies and the unemployment rate rise.
RSA is one of the first practical public-key cryptosystems and is widely used for secure data transmission. In such a cryptosystem, the encryption key is public and different from the decryption key which is kept secret (private).
Rational choice theory, also known as choice theory or rational action theory, is a framework for understanding and often formally modeling social and economic behavior.• Lawrence E.
The Romance languages (sometimes called the Romanic languages, Latin languages, or Neo-Latin languages) are the modern languages that evolved from Vulgar Latin between the sixth and ninth centuries and that thus form a branch of the Italic languages within the Indo-European language family.
Rugby  is a game similar to football developed at Rugby School in Rugby, Warwickshire, one of many versions of football played at English public schools in the 19th century.Rugby Football History The two main types (known as codes) of rugby are rugby league and rugby union.
Russian refers to anything related to Russia, including:
thumb|A visual form of recursion known as the [[Droste effect. The woman in this image holds an object that contains a smaller image of her holding an identical object, which in turn contains a smaller image of herself holding an identical object, and so forth.
Religion is any cultural system of designated behaviors and practices, world views, texts, sanctified places, ethics, or organizations, that relate humanity to the supernatural or transcendental. Religions relate humanity to what anthropologist Clifford Geertz has referred to as a cosmic &quot;order of existence&quot;.
In logic, proof by contradiction is a form of proof, and more specifically a form of indirect proof, that establishes the truth or validity of a proposition.  It starts by assuming that the opposite proposition is true, and then shows that such an assumption leads to a contradiction.
In United States law, a reversible error is an error of sufficient gravity to warrant reversal of a judgment on appeal.  It is an error by the trier of law (judge), or the trier of fact (the jury, or the judge if it is a bench trial), or malfeasance by one of the trying attorneys, which results in an unfair trial.
Rapping (or rhyming, spitting, emceeing, MCing) is a musical form of vocal delivery that incorporates &quot;rhyme, rhythmic speech, and street vernacular&quot;, which is performed or chanted in a variety of ways, usually over a backbeat or musical accompaniment.  The components of rap include &quot;content&quot; (what is being said), &quot;flow&quot; (rhythm, rhyme), and &quot;delivery&quot; (cadence, tone).
__NOTOC__
A retronym is a word created to differentiate between two words, where previously no clarification was required.http://www.
On the history of using &quot;русский&quot; (&quot;russkij&quot;) and &quot;российский&quot; (&quot;rossijskij&quot;) as the Russian adjectives denoting &quot;Russian&quot;, see: Oleg Trubachyov. 2005.
}}
&quot;. Audit Bureau of Circulations.
Rou}}
Rhetoric is the art of discourse, wherein a writer or speaker strives to inform, persuade or motivate particular audiences in specific situations. As a subject of formal study and a productive civic practice, rhetoric has played a central role in the European tradition.
Crimson Tide|Pink tide}}
Wilhelm Richard Wagner (; ; 22 May 181313 February 1883), was a German composer, theatre director, polemicist, and conductor who is primarily known for his operas (or, as some of his later works were later known, &quot;music dramas&quot;). Unlike most opera composers, Wagner wrote both the libretto and the music for each of his stage works.
Rheology (; from Greek ῥέω rhéō, &quot;flow&quot; and -λoγία, -logia, &quot;study of&quot;) is the study of the flow of matter, primarily in a liquid state, but also as 'soft solids' or solids under conditions in which they respond with plastic flow rather than deforming elastically in response to an applied force.W.
A rifle is a firearm designed to be fired from the shoulder, with a barrel that has a helical groove or pattern of grooves (&quot;rifling&quot;) cut into the barrel walls. The raised areas of the rifling are called &quot;lands,&quot; which make contact with the projectile (for small arms usage, called a bullet), imparting spin around an axis corresponding to the orientation of the weapon.
Feminazi is a pejorative term popularized by politically conservative radio talk-show host Rush Limbaugh to refer to feminists. It is a portmanteau of the nouns feminist and Nazi.
A role-playing game (sometimes spelled roleplaying game and abbreviated to RPG) is a game in which players assume the roles of characters in a fictional setting. Players take responsibility for acting out these roles within a narrative, either through literal acting or through a process of structured decision-making or character development.
Raised-bed gardening is a form of gardening in which the soil is formed in three-to-four-foot-wide (1.0–1.
Ring most broadly refers to a hollow circular shape or to a high-pitched sound. It thus may refer to:
A miniature is a small-scale reproduction, or a small version. It may refer to:
Reduction, reduced, or reduce may refer to:
}}
In law, rebuttal is a form of evidence that is presented to contradict or nullify other evidence that has been presented by an adverse party. By analogy the same term is used in politics and public affairs to refer to the informal process by which statements, designed to refute or negate specific arguments put forward by opponents, are deployed in the media.
In the common law of torts, res ipsa loquitur (Latin for &quot;the thing speaks for itself&quot;) is a doctrine that infers negligence from the very nature of an accident or injury in the absence of direct evidence on how any defendant behaved. Although modern formulations differ by jurisdiction, common law originally stated that the accident must satisfy the necessary elements of negligence: duty, breach of duty, causation, and injury.
thumb|right|The [[Republic of Congo, circa 2000]]
thumb|Topography of the Republic of the Congo.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the Republic of the Congo, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Republic of the Congo takes place in a framework of a unitary semi-presidential republic, whereby the President is the head of state and the Prime Minister is the head of government, of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the President and the Government.
)
Telecommunications in the Republic of the Congo include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in the Republic of the Congo includes land, air and water transportation. The country's rail system was built by forced laborers during the 1930s and largely remains in operation.
For the two decades preceding the Republic of the Congo's 1991 National Conference, the country was firmly in the socialist camp, allied principally with the Soviet Union and other Eastern bloc nations. Educational, economic, and foreign aid links between Congo and its Eastern bloc allies were extensive, with the Congolese military and security forces receiving significant Soviet, East German, and Cuban assistance.
Reich (;http://dictionary.reference.
A relay league is a chain of message forwarding stations in a system of optical telegraphs, radio telegraph stations, or riding couriers.
The early history of radio is the history of technology that produce and use radio instruments that use radio waves.  Within the timeline of radio, many people contributed theory and inventions in what became radio.
Research comprises &quot;creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of humans, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications.&quot;OECD (2002) Frascati Manual: proposed standard practice for surveys on research and experimental development, 6th edition.
see also The Louvre, Atlas Database
(main language)
Romantic comedy films (also known as the portmanteaus romedy or romcom) are films with light-hearted, humorous plotlines, centered on romantic ideals such as that true love is able to surmount most obstacles.Bill Johnson.
The Renaissance (, ), from  &quot;re-birth&quot;,  , from rinascere &quot;to be reborn&quot;  was a period in European history, from the 14th to the 17th century, regarded as the cultural bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. It started as a cultural movement in Italy in the Late Medieval period and later spread to the rest of Europe, marking the beginning of the Early Modern Age.
thumb|The [[River Eden, Cumbria|Eden Valley is thought by some to have been the heartland of the kingdom of Rheged.]]
A republic () is a form of government in which the country is considered a &quot;public matter&quot; – not the private concern or property of the rulers – and where offices of state are elected or appointed, rather than inherited. It is a form of government under which the head of state is not a monarch.
A Request for Comments (RFC) is a type of publication from the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and the Internet Society (ISOC), the principal technical development and standards-setting bodies for the Internet.
Religious conversion is the adoption of a set of beliefs identified with one particular religious denomination to the exclusion of others. Thus &quot;religious conversion&quot; would describe the abandoning of adherence to one denomination and affiliating with another.
Rubidium is a chemical element with symbol Rb and atomic number 37. Rubidium is a soft, silvery-white metallic element of the alkali metal group, with an atomic mass of 85.
Ruthenium is a chemical element with symbol Ru and atomic number 44. It is a rare transition metal belonging to the platinum group of the periodic table.
Rhodium is a chemical element with symbol Rh and atomic number 45. It is a rare, silvery-white, hard, and chemically inert transition metal.
Radium is a chemical element with symbol Ra and atomic number 88. It is the sixth element in group 2 of the periodic table, also known as the alkaline earth metals.
Rhenium is a chemical element with symbol Re and atomic number 75. It is a silvery-white, heavy, third-row transition metal in group 7 of the periodic table.
Radon is a chemical element with symbol Rn and atomic number 86. It is a radioactive, colorless, odorless, tasteless noble gas.
Rocca is an American rapper. He was born in California.
A ruby is a red gemstone.
Rescuing Prometheus: Four Monumental Projects That Changed the Modern World is a book by Thomas P. Hughes.
Riddarfjärden (, &quot;The Knight Firth&quot;) is the easternmost bay of Lake Mälaren in central Stockholm.  Stockholm was founded in 1252 on an island in the stream where Lake Mälaren (from the west) drains into the Baltic Sea (to the east); today the island is called Stadsholmen and constitutes Stockholm's Old Town.
thumb|right|Random access compared to [[sequential access.]]
Racism is discrimination and prejudice towards people based on their race or ethnicity. Today, the use of the term &quot;racism&quot; does not easily fall under a single definition.
A race of humans is a grouping based on shared physical traits, ancestry, or genetics. Although such groupings lack a firm basis in modern biology, they continue to have a strong influence over contemporary social relations.
R (named ar/or &quot;R&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary || /ˈɔr/ 2nd edition (1989); &quot;ar&quot;, op. cit; a pronunciation  is common in Ireland.
thumb|Richard Bachman's author photo taken by Claudia Inez Bachman. The actual subject of the photo is Richard Manuel, the [[insurance agent of Kirby McCauley, who was King's literary agent.
This article concerns the demography of Réunion. Nationals of Réunion are Réunionese.
Flag of France|thumb|right
The economy of Réunion has traditionally been based on agriculture. Sugarcane has been the primary crop for more than a century, and in some years it accounts for 85% of exports.
Réunion has a number of systems for communication, including telephony, Internet and radio. The island is connected to the SAFE undersea cable system.
thumb|[[Roland Garros Airport]]
This article provides only a brief outline of each period of the history of Romania; details are presented in separate articles (see the links in the box and below).
thumb|right|General map of Romania.
Romania political framework is a semi-presidential, representative democratic republic where the prime minister is the head of government and the president is the head of state. Executive power is exercised by the president of the republic and the government.
$197.004 billion (nominal, 2017)
The media of Romania refers to mass media outlets based in the Republic of Romania. Television, magazines, and newspapers are all operated by both state-owned and for-profit corporations which depend on advertising, subscription, and other sales-related revenues.
As a densely populated country in a central location in Central-Southeastern Europe and with a developed economy, Romania has a dense and modern transportation infrastructure.
The foreign relations of Romania are conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Ministerul Afacerilor Externe). Romania is a member of NATO and the European Union.
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Rwanda, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Rwanda gained its independence on July 1, 1962. Politics of Rwanda reflects Belgian and German civil law systems About Rwanda|url = http://www.
Telecommunications in Rwanda include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
The transport system in Rwanda centres primarily around the road network. Paved roads lie between the capital, Kigali, and most other major cities and towns in the country.
Rwanda has been the center of much international attention since the war and genocide of 1994. The country is an active member of the United Nations, having presided over the Security Council during part of 1995 and again in 2013-2014.
The numeric system represented by Roman numerals originated in ancient Rome and remained the usual way of writing numbers throughout Europe well into the Late Middle Ages. Numbers in this system are represented by combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet.
Rem or REM may refer to:
Rosacea}}
border
 1973
RPG may refer to:
Radar is an object-detection system that uses radio waves to determine the range, angle, or velocity of objects. It can be used to detect aircraft, ships, spacecraft, guided missiles, motor vehicles, weather formations, and terrain.
The Workers' and Peasants' Red Army (: RKKA, frequently shortened in Russian to ; KA, in English: Red Army also in critical literature and folklore of that epoch – Red Horde, Army of Work) was the army and the air force of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, and after 1922 the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The army was established immediately after the 1917 October Revolution (Red October or Bolshevik Revolution).
Rock or Rocks may refer to:
In probability and statistics, a random variable, random quantity, aleatory variable, or stochastic variable is a variable  whose possible values are numerical  outcomes of a random phenomenon. As a function, a random variable is required to be measurable, which rules out certain pathological cases where the quantity which the random variable returns is infinitely sensitive to small changes in the outcome.
Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyám () is the title that Edward FitzGerald gave to his translation of a selection of poems, originally written in Persian and numbering about a thousand, attributed to Omar Khayyám (1048–1131), a Persian poet, mathematician and astronomer. A ruba'i (, derived from Arabic root rubāʿī (), &quot;consisting of four, quadripartite, fourfold&quot;) is a two-line stanza with two parts (or hemistichs) per line, hence the word rubayot, meaning &quot;quatrains&quot;.
146.8 million (including Crimea)
}}
Censorship and the issue of Media freedom in Russia have been main themes since the era of the telegraph.  Radio was a major new technology in the 1920s, when the Communists had recently come to power.
thumb|A [[Russian Railways Siemens Velaro Sapsan train]]
The foreign relations of the Russian Federation is the policy of the Russian government by which it guides the interactions with other nations, their citizens and foreign organizations. This article covers the foreign policy of the Russian Federation since the dissolution of the Soviet Union in late 1991.
The United States Postal Service's Railway Mail Service was a significant mail transportation service in the US during the time period from the mid-19th century until the mid-20th century. The RMS, or its successor the Postal Transportation Service (PTS), carried the vast majority of letters and packages mailed in the United States from the 1890s until the 1960s.
Rail transport is a means of transferring of passengers and goods on wheeled vehicles running on rails, also known as tracks. It is also commonly referred to as train transport.
A refreshable braille display or braille terminal is an electro-mechanical device for displaying braille characters, usually by means of round-tipped pins raised through holes in a flat surface. Blind computer users who cannot use a computer monitor can use it to read text output.
A regular expression, regex or regexpWhat Regular Expressions Are Exactly - Terminology (sometimes called a rational expression) is, in theoretical computer science and formal language theory, a sequence of characters that define a search pattern. Usually this pattern is then used by string searching algorithms for &quot;find&quot; or &quot;find and replace&quot; operations on strings.
In theoretical computer science and formal language theory, a regular language (also called a rational language) is a formal language that can be expressed using a regular expression, in the strict sense of the latter notion used in theoretical computer science (as opposed to many regular expressions engines provided by modern programming languages, which are augmented with features that allow recognition of languages that cannot be expressed by a classic regular expression).
A reference work is a book or periodical (or its electronic equivalent) to which one can refer for information. The information is intended to be found quickly when needed.
The Real Irish Republican Army or Real IRA (RIRA), is a dissident Irish republican paramilitary organisation which aims to bring about a united Ireland. It formed in 1997 following a split in the Provisional IRA by dissident members, who rejected the IRA's ceasefire that year.
}}
Rugby league football,
Rowing, often referred to as crew in the United States, is a sport with origins back to Ancient Egyptian times. It is based on propelling a boat (racing shell) on water using oars.
RuneQuest is a fantasy role-playing game first published in 1978 by Chaosium, created by Steve Perrin and set in Greg Stafford's mythical world of Glorantha. RuneQuest is notable for its system, designed around a percentile die and with an early implementation of skill rules, which became the basis of numerous other games.
application/rtf
In computer graphics, a raster graphics or bitmap image is a dot matrix data structure, representing a generally rectangular grid of pixels, or points of color, viewable via a monitor, paper, or other display medium. Raster images are stored in image files with varying formats.
}}
A router in British English and is typically pronounced  American and Australian English.}} is a networking device that forwards data packets between computer networks.
Routing is the process of selecting a path for traffic in a network, or between or across multiple networks. Routing is performed for many types of networks, including circuit-switched networks, such as the public switched telephone network (PSTN), computer networks, such as the Internet, as well as in networks used in public and private transportation, such as the system of streets, roads, and highways in national infrastructure.
RIP or R.I.
A  resistor is a passive two-terminal electrical component that implements electrical resistance as a circuit element. In electronic circuits, resistors are used to reduce current flow, adjust signal levels, to divide voltages, bias active elements, and terminate transmission lines, among other uses.
Republican}}
, ,
Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is a polymeric molecule essential in various biological roles in coding, decoding, regulation, and expression of genes. RNA and DNA are nucleic acids, and, along with lipids, proteins and carbohydrates, constitute the four major macromolecules essential for all known forms of life.
October Revolution:7 – 8 November 1917
The RNA world is a hypothetical phase of the evolutionary history of life on Earth, in which self-replicating RNA molecules proliferated before the evolution of DNA and proteins.
The ribosome () is a complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules.
In computer science, real-time computing (RTC), or reactive computing describes hardware and software systems subject to a &quot;real-time constraint&quot;, for example from event to system response.std::ctime Real-time programs must guarantee response within specified time constraints, often referred to as &quot;deadlines&quot;.
Julia, Mirah, Nu,
}}
Render, rendered, or rendering may refer to:
Bot|other uses of the term|Robot (disambiguation)}}
Renewable energy is energy that is collected from renewable resources, which are naturally replenished on a human timescale, such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves, and geothermal heat. Renewable energy often provides energy in four important areas: electricity generation, air and water heating/cooling, transportation, and rural (off-grid) energy services.
Romulus Augustus (; born c. AD 460 – died after AD 476, and was apparently still alive as late as 507)Burns, Thomas, A History of the Ostrogoths, p.
thumb|200px|right|Augustus (Octavian), the first Roman Emperor of the Principate Era whose ascension ended [[Roman Republic|republic rule at Rome.]]
The Roman calendar is the calendar used by the Roman kingdom and republic. It is often inclusive of the Julian calendar established by the reforms of the dictator Julius Caesar and emperor Augustus in the late 1stcentury and sometimes inclusive of any system dated by inclusive counting towards months' kalends, nones, and ides in the Roman manner.
thumb|upright=1.5|[[Colt Single Action Army]]
}}
Robert or Bob Morris may refer to:
A retrovirus is a single-stranded positive-sense RNA virus with a DNA intermediate and, as an obligate parasite, targets a host cell. Once inside the host cell cytoplasm, the virus uses its own reverse transcriptase enzyme to produce DNA from its RNA genome, the reverse of the usual pattern, thus retro (backwards).
A round (also called a perpetual canon [canon perpetuus] or infinite canon) is a musical composition, a limited type of canon, in which a minimum of three voices sing exactly the same melody at the unison (and may continue repeating it indefinitely), but with each voice beginning at different times so that different parts of the melody coincide in the different voices, but nevertheless fit harmoniously together . It is one of the easiest forms of part singing, as only one line of melody need be learned by all parts, and is part of a popular musical tradition.
Reincarnation is the philosophical or religious concept that an aspect of a living being starts a new life in a different physical body or form after each biological death. It is also called rebirth or transmigration, and is a part of the Saṃsāra doctrine of cyclic existence.
The Riemann zeta function or Euler–Riemann zeta function, , is a function of a complex variable s that analytically continues the sum of the Dirichlet series
Roman Republic}}
Ruf or RUF may refer to:
}}
Romeo and Juliet is a tragedy written by William Shakespeare early in his career about two young star-crossed lovers whose deaths ultimately reconcile their feuding families. It was among Shakespeare's most popular plays during his lifetime and along with Hamlet, is one of his most frequently performed plays.
Robert Stickgold is an Associate Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center.  A preeminent sleep researcher, Dr.
Religion and mythology differ in scope but have overlapping aspects. Both terms refer to systems of concepts that are of high importance to a certain community, making statements concerning the supernatural or sacred.
Retention may refer to:
thumb|The north portal of the 12th-century [[Urnes stave church has been interpreted as containing depictions of snakes and dragons that represent Ragnarök.]]
bits
rn (short for Read News) is a news client (or 'newsreader') written by Larry Wall and originally released in 1984.  It was one of the first newsreaders to take full advantage of character-addressable CRT terminals (vnews, by Kenneth Almquist was first).
Renaissance music is vocal and instrumental music written and performed in Europe during the Renaissance era. Consensus among music historians – with notable dissent – has been to start the era around 1400, with the end of the medieval era, and to close it around 1600, with the beginning of the Baroque period, therefore commencing the musical Renaissance about a hundred years after the beginning of the Renaissance as it is understood in other disciplines.
, , , ,
Rhein may refer to
thumb|Likeliest locations of Rungholt
In computability theory, Rice's theorem states that all non-trivial, semantic properties of programs are undecidable. A semantic property is one about the program's behavior (for instance, does the program terminate for all inputs), unlike a syntactic property (for instance, does the program contain an if-then-else statement).
Recusancy was the state of those who refused to attend Anglican services during the history of England and Wales; these individuals were known as recusants.New Catholic Encyclopedia section on 'recusants' The term, which derives ultimately from the Latin recusare (to refuse or make an objection)Burton, E.
In theoretical computer science and formal language theory, a regular grammar is a formal grammar that is right-regular or left-regular. Every regular grammar describes a regular language.
In physics, radiation is the emission or transmission of energy in the form of waves or particles through space or through a material medium. This includes:
thumb|Rodolphus Agricola|right
}}
A relational database is a digital database whose organization is based on the relational model of data, as proposed by E. F.
The Rule of Saint Benedict () is a book of precepts written by Benedict of Nursia ( AD 480–550) for monks living communally under the authority of an abbot.
}}
9 July 518
Anastasius (Greek: Ἀρτέμιος Ἀναστάσιος Β΄), known in English as Anastasios II or Anastasius II (died 719), was the Byzantine Emperor from 713 to 715.
The Roman Missal () is the liturgical book that contains the texts and rubrics for the celebration of the Mass in the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church.
}}
In optics, the refractive index or index of refraction n of a material is a dimensionless number that describes how light propagates through that medium. It is defined as
&lt;BR&gt;
thumb|&quot;Rán&quot; (2004) by [[Anker Eli Petersen.]]
Radical may refer to:
*
A road is a thoroughfare, route, or way on land between two places that has been paved or otherwise improved to allow travel by foot or some form of [including a motor vehicle], cart, bicycle, or horse.
Roman roads (Latin: viae; singular: via meaning way) were physical infrastructure vital to the maintenance and development of the Roman state, and were built from about 300 BC through the expansion and consolidation of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. They provided efficient means for the overland movement of armies, officials, and civilians, and the inland carriage of official communications and trade goods.
A railway is a means of transport.
Range voting or score voting is an electoral system for single-seat elections, in which voters give each candidate a score, the scores are added (or, equivalently, averaged), and the candidate with the highest total is elected. It has been described by various other names including evaluative voting, utilitarian voting, the point system, ratings summation, 0-99 voting, average voting, and utility voting.
*The Butcher of Prague
Romantic music is a period of Western classical music that began in the late 18th or early 19th century. It is related to Romanticism, the European artistic and literary movement that arose in the second half of the 18th century, and Romantic music in particular dominated the Romantic movement in Germany.
Race Game is a pencil and paper game, involving the pencil flick action.
Rapids are sections of a river where the river bed has a relatively steep it ranges from 1-8 with 1 being the most navagatable and 8 bring the least gradient, causing an increase in water velocity and turbulence.
Rutherfordium is a chemical element with symbol Rf and atomic number 104, named after physicist Ernest Rutherford. It is a synthetic element (an element that can be created in a laboratory but is not found in nature) and radioactive; the most stable known isotope, 267Rf, has a half-life of approximately 1.
thumb|325px|right|An example of runoff voting. Runoff voting involves two rounds of voting.
Renaissance dances belong to the broad group of historical dances.
Refraction is the change in direction of wave propagation due to a change in its transmission medium.
Smokers]] (1636)
A rotary dial is a component of a telephone or a telephone switchboard that implements a signaling technology in telecommunications known as pulse dialing. It is used when initiating a telephone call to transmit the destination telephone number to a telephone exchange.
A revolution (from the Latin revolutio, &quot;a turn around&quot;) is a fundamental change in political power or organizational structures that takes place in a relatively short period of time when the population rises up in revolt against the current authorities.
The Roland TB-303 Bass Line is a bass synthesizer with built-in sequencer manufactured by the Roland Corporation. Released from 1981 to 1984, it had a defining role in the development of contemporary electronic dance music.
(as Hungarian Magic Cube - first test batches released in Budapest);  (as Rubik's Cube, worldwide)
thumb|300px|right|Scene rendered with RRV  (simple implementation of radiosity renderer based on OpenGL) 79th iteration.
The Reign of Terror or The Terror () is the label given by some historians to a period during the French Revolution.
Reliabilism, a category of theories in the philosophical discipline of epistemology, has been advanced as a theory both of justification and of knowledge. Process reliabilism has been used as an argument against philosophical skepticism, such as the brain in a vat thought experiment.
In ring theory, a branch of abstract algebra, an ideal is a special subset of a ring. Ideals generalize certain subsets of the integers, such as the even numbers or the multiples of 3.
Tug of war (also known as  war of tug, tug o' war, tug war, rope war, rope pulling, tug rope or tugging war) is a sport that directly puts two teams against each other in a test of strength: teams pull on opposite ends of a rope, with the goal being to bring the rope a certain distance in one direction against the force of the opposing team's pull.
Regular semantics is a computing term which describes one type of guarantee provided by a data register shared by several processors in a parallel machine or in a network of computers working together. Regular semantics are defined for a variable with a single writer but multiple readers.
Rutherford scattering is the elastic scattering of charged particles by the Coulomb interaction.  It is a physical phenomenon explained by Ernest Rutherford in 1911E.
The RGB color model is an additive color model in which red, green and blue light are added together in various ways to reproduce a broad array of colors. The name of the model comes from the initials of the three additive primary colors, red, green and blue.
A Roman legion (from Latin legio &quot;military levy, conscription&quot;, from legere &quot;to choose&quot;) was the largest unit of the Roman army, involving from 3000 men in early times to over 5200 men in imperial times, consisting of centuries as the basic units. Until the middle of the first century, 10 cohorts (about 5,000 men) made up a Roman Legion.
thumbnail|right|Internal combustion piston engine Components of a typical, [[four stroke cycle, internal combustion piston engine.
A register is an authoritative list of one kind of information.
Radical feminism is a perspective within feminism that calls for a radical reordering of society in which male supremacy is eliminated in all social and economic contexts.
In computer graphics, ray tracing is a technique for generating an image by tracing the path of light as pixels in an image plane and simulating the effects of its encounters with virtual objects.  The technique is capable of producing a very high degree of visual realism, usually higher than that of typical scanline rendering methods, but at a greater computational cost.
Redshift is a phenomenon in physics, especially astrophysics
Rom, ROM, and variants, may refer to:
Mass racial violence in the United States, also called race riots, can include such disparate events as:
Rehoboam (pronounced ; ; ; ) was an Israelite king mentioned in the Hebrew Bible. In the account of I Kings and II Chronicles, he was initially king of the United Monarchy of Israel, but after the ten northern tribes of Israel rebelled in 932/931 BC to form the independent Kingdom of Israel (Samaria), he remained as king of only the Kingdom of Judah, or southern kingdom.
In telecommunications, RS-232 is a standard for serial communication transmission of data. It formally defines the signals connecting between a DTE (data terminal equipment) such as a computer terminal, and a DCE (data circuit-terminating equipment or data communication equipment), such as a modem.
RMS may refer to:
Relationship most often refers to:
Running is a method of terrestrial locomotion allowing humans and other animals to move rapidly on foot. Running is a type of gait characterized by an aerial phase in which all feet are above the ground (though there are exceptionshttp://rspb.
Reform Judaism (also known as Liberal Judaism or Progressive Judaism) is a major Jewish denomination that emphasizes the evolving nature of the faith, the superiority of its ethical aspects to the ceremonial ones, and a belief in a continuous revelation not centered on the theophany at Mount Sinai. A liberal religion, it is characterized by a lesser stress on ritual and personal observance, regarding Jewish Law as non-binding and the individual Jew as autonomous, and openness to external influences and progressive values.
Reconstructionist Judaism (, yahadút rekonstruktsyonistit, or , yahadút mitkhadéshet) is a modern Jewish movement  that views Judaism as a progressively evolving civilization and is based on the conceptions developed by Mordecai Kaplan (1881–1983). The movement originated as a semi-organized stream within Conservative Judaism and developed from the late 1920s to 1940s, before it seceded in 1955 and established a rabbinical college in 1967.
The relationship between religion and homosexuality has varied greatly across time and place, within and between different religions and denominations, and regarding different forms of homosexuality and bisexuality. Present day doctrines of the world's major religions vary vastly generally and by denomination on attitudes toward these sexual orientations.
45,029 ()
In religion and theology, revelation is the revealing or disclosing of some form of truth or knowledge through communication with a deity or other supernatural entity or entities.
Cube houses, De Kuip; stadium of Feyenoord,Historic town centre of Delfshaven, Port of Rotterdam
}}
Roller hockey is a form of hockey played on a dry surface using wheeled skates. Most professional-inline hockey games take place on an indoor or outdoor sport court (a type of plastic interlinking tiles used to create a skating surface).
RN or Rn may stand for:
Rotary may refer to:
This is a list of authors who have written poetry in the Russian language.
Right ascension (abbreviated RA; symbol α) is the angular distance measured eastward along the celestial equator from the vernal equinox to the hour circle of the point in question.
Rawa}}
Ruth (or its variants) may refer to:
Railtrack was a group of companies that owned the track, signalling, tunnels, bridges, level crossings and all but a handful of the stations of the British railway system from 1994 until 2002. It was created as part of the privatisation of British Rail, listed on the London Stock Exchange, and was a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index.
Green and Gold
Ringwood Brewery is a small brewery  situated on the edge of the New Forest in Hampshire, England near the Dorset border. It produces mainly cask ales and some bottled beers.
Database entry includes justification for why this species is critically endangered.
Historical negationismThe term &quot;negationism&quot; derives from the French neologism négationnisme, denoting Holocaust denial.(Kornberg, Jacques.
Romanticism (also the Romantic era or the Romantic period) was an artistic, literary, musical and intellectual movement that originated in Europe toward the end of the 18th century, and in most areas was at its peak in the approximate period from 1800 to 1850. Romanticism was characterized by its emphasis on emotion and individualism as well as glorification of all the past and nature, preferring the medieval rather than the classical.
A room is a distinguishable space within a structure.
Romantic nationalism (also national romanticism, organic nationalism, identity nationalism) is the form of nationalism in which the state derives its political legitimacy as an organic consequence of the unity of those it governs. This includes, depending on the particular manner of practice, the language, race, culture, religion, and customs of the nation in its primal sense of those who were born within its culture.
The rotary engine was an early type of internal combustion engine, usually designed with an odd number of cylinders per row in a radial configuration, in which the crankshaft remained stationary in operation, with the entire crankcase and its attached cylinders rotating around it as a unit. Its main application was in aviation, although it also saw use before its primary aviation role, in a few early motorcycles and automobiles.
Franz Brentano, Fichte, Goethe, Eduard von Hartmann, Hegel, Kant, Schelling, Schiller, Karl Julius Schröer, Silvio Gesell.
Remembrance of the Dead () is held annually on May 4 in the Netherlands. It commemorates all civilians and members of the armed forces of the Kingdom of the Netherlands who have died in wars or peacekeeping missions since the beginning of the Second World War.
}}
A Roman or Romans is a thing or person of or from the city of Rome.
Robert or Bob(by) Stevens is the name of:
A roof is part of a building envelope. It is the covering on the uppermost part of a building or shelter which provides protection from animals and weather, notably rain or snow, but also heat, wind and sunlight.
Podocarpus latifolius (broad-leaved yellowwood or real yellowwood, , , , ) is a large evergreen tree up to 35 m high and 3 m trunk diameter, in the conifer family Podocarpaceae; it is the type species of the genus Podocarpus.
A real-time operating system (RTOS) is an operating system (OS) intended to serve real-time applications that process data as it comes in, typically without buffer delays.  Processing time requirements (including any OS delay) are measured in tenths of seconds or shorter increments of time.
The Righteous Brothers is an American musical duo of Bill Medley and (formerly) Bobby Hatfield. They began performing together in 1962 in the Los Angeles area as part of a five-member group called The Paramours, but adopted the name &quot;The Righteous Brothers&quot; when they embarked on their recording career as a duo.
Racial profiling is the act of suspecting or targeting a person of a certain race based on a stereotype about their race, rather than on individual suspicion. More commonly in the U.
The Rankine scale () is a thermodynamic temperature based on an absolute scale named after the Glasgow University engineer and physicist William John Macquorn Rankine, who proposed it in 1859. (The Kelvin scale was first proposed in 1848.
The Rabbinical Assembly (RA) is the international association of Conservative rabbis. The RA was founded in 1901 to shape the ideology, programs, and practices of the Conservative movement.
Retroposons are repetitive DNA fragments which are inserted into chromosomes after they had been reverse transcribed from any RNA molecule.
A recording, record or records may mean:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to religion:
A raven is one of several larger-bodied species of the genus Corvus. These species do not form a single taxonomic group within the genus.
The Roman Inquisition, formally the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Roman and Universal Inquisition, was a system of tribunals developed by the Holy See of the Roman Catholic Church, during the second half of the 16th century, responsible for prosecuting individuals accused of a wide array of crimes relating to religious doctrine or alternate religious doctrine or alternate religious beliefs. In the period after the Medieval Inquisition, it was one of three different manifestations of the wider Catholic Inquisition along with the Spanish Inquisition and Portuguese Inquisition.
(,
}}
The Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) is a network protocol for delivering audio and video over IP networks. RTP is used extensively in communication and entertainment systems that involve streaming media, such as telephony, video teleconference applications, television services and web-based push-to-talk features.
René-Théophile-Hyacinthe LaennecWhile some sources use the alternative spelling Laënnec, the correct form is Laennec, without the diaraesis, which is not used in Breton names. He did not use the diaraesis in his signature.
Robin Hood is a heroic outlaw in English folklore who, according to legend, was a highly skilled archer and swordsman. Traditionally depicted as being dressed in Lincoln green,The Child Ballads 117 &quot;A Gest of Robyn Hode&quot; (c.
Ramadan
Around the start of the Common Era, the family trees of the gens Julia and the gens Claudia became intertwined into the Julio-Claudian family tree as a result of marriages and adoptions.
The Rainhill Trials were an important competition in the early days of steam locomotive railways, run in October 1829 for the nearly completed Liverpool and Manchester Railway. Five engines competed, running back and forth along a mile length of level track at Rainhill, in Lancashire (now Merseyside).
Rayleigh scattering (pronounced  ), named after the British physicist Lord Rayleigh (John William Strutt),Lord Rayleigh (John Strutt) refined his theory of scattering in a series of papers that were issued over a period of decades.  Here is a partial list of those papers:
Radio Row is a nickname for an urban street or district specializing in the sale of radio and electronic equipment and parts.  Radio Rows arose in many cities with the 1920s rise of broadcasting and declined after middle of the 20th century.
Relativity may refer to:
}}
right|thumb|200px|right|Photo of Kirby in his house.
A restriction enzyme or restriction endonuclease is an enzyme that cleaves DNA into fragments at or near specific recognition sites within the molecule known as restriction sites. Restriction enzymes are commonly classified into four types, which differ in their structure and whether they cut their DNA substrate at their recognition site, or if the recognition and cleavage sites are separate from one another.
An RNA virus is a virus that has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material.MeSH, retrieved on 12 April 2008.
Radiocarbon dating (also referred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon (), a radioactive isotope of carbon.
A reduced instruction set computer, or RISC (pronounced 'risk', ), is one whose instruction set architecture (ISA) has a set of attributes that allows it to have a lower cycles per instruction (CPI) than a complex instruction set computer (CISC). Various suggestions have been made regarding a precise definition of RISC, but the general concept is that of a computer that has a small set of simple and general instructions, rather than a large set of complex and specialized instructions.
The role of women in Judaism is determined by the Hebrew Bible, the Oral Law (the corpus of rabbinic literature), by custom,  and by non-religious cultural factors. Although the Hebrew Bible and rabbinic literature mention various female role models, religious law treats women differently in various circumstances.
Robert Herrick may refer to:
In geometry, the rhombicuboctahedron, or small rhombicuboctahedron, is an Archimedean solid with eight triangular and eighteen square faces. There are 24 identical vertices, with one triangle and three squares meeting at each.
;
In complex analysis, the Riemann mapping theorem states that if U is a non-empty simply connected open subset of the complex number plane C which is not all of C, then there exists a biholomorphic mapping f (i.e.
The relational model (RM) for database management is an approach to managing data using a structure and language consistent with first-order predicate logic, first described in 1969 by Edgar F. Codd,.
Rathaus Schöneberg is the city hall for the borough of Tempelhof-Schöneberg in Berlin. From 1949 until 1990 it served as the seat of the state senate of West Berlin and from 1949 until 1991 as the seat of the Governing Mayor.
Rædwald ( , 'power in counsel'), also written as Raedwald or Redwald, was a 7th-century king of East Anglia, a long-lived Anglo-Saxon kingdom which included the present-day English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. He was the son of Tytila of East Anglia and a member of the Wuffingas dynasty (named after his grandfather, Wuffa), who were the first kings of the East Angles.
A rhyme is a repetition of similar sounds (or the same sound) in two or more words, most often in the final syllables of lines in poems and songs. The word rhyme is also a pars pro toto (&quot;a part (taken) for the whole&quot;) that means a short poem, such as a rhyming couplet or other brief rhyming poem such as nursery rhymes.
Rhythm (from Greek , rhythmos, &quot;any regular recurring motion, symmetry&quot; ) generally means a &quot;movement marked by the regulated succession of strong and weak elements, or of opposite or different conditions&quot; . This general meaning of regular recurrence or pattern in time can apply to a wide variety of cyclical natural phenomena having a periodicity or frequency of anything from microseconds to several seconds (as with the riff in a rock music song); to several minutes or hours, or, at the most extreme, even over many years.
Rondeau may refer to:
. &quot;born 22 September 1901...
Rousseau most commonly refers to 18th-century Swiss author and philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, and it may also refer to:
but see note under The Todd Dossier in novels.
or
Received Pronunciation (RP) is the accent of Standard English in the United Kingdom and is defined in the Concise Oxford English Dictionary as &quot;the standard accent of English as spoken in the south of England&quot;, although it can be heard from native speakers throughout England and Wales. Peter Trudgill estimated in 1974 that 3% of people in Britain were RP speakers, but this rough estimate has been questioned by the phonetician J.
The Revised Julian calendar, also known as the Milanković calendar, or, less formally, new calendar, is a calendar, developed and proposed by the Serbian scientist Milutin Milanković in 1923, which effectively discontinued the 340 years of divergence between the naming of dates sanctioned by those Eastern Orthodox churches adopting it and the Gregorian calendar that has come to predominate worldwide. This calendar was intended to replace the ecclesiastical calendar based on the Julian calendar hitherto in use by all of the Eastern Orthodox Church.
A reform of the date of Easter has been proposed several times because the current system for determining the date of Easter is seen as presenting two significant problems:
In physics, redshift happens when light or other electromagnetic radiation from an object is increased in wavelength, or shifted to the red end of the spectrum. In general, whether or not the radiation is within the visible spectrum, &quot;redder&quot; means an increase in wavelength – equivalent to a lower frequency and a lower photon energy, in accordance with, respectively, the wave and quantum theories of light.
Rhea may refer to:
A radius is a straight line or distance from the center to the edge of a curve.
Richard Butler may refer to:
The rulers  of Japan have been its Emperors, whether effectively or nominally, for its entire recorded history. These include the ancient legendary emperors, the attested but undated emperors of the Yamato period (early fifth to early 6th centuries), and the clearly dated emperors of 539 to the present.
Roger Dodger}}
Redirect examination is the trial process by which the party who offered the witness has a chance to explain or otherwise qualify any damaging or accusing testimony brought out by the opponent during cross-examination.  Redirect examination may question only those areas brought out on cross-examination and may not stray beyond that boundary.
Robert Abbot () was an English theologian who promoted puritan doctrines. With a living at Cranbrook, Kent, he wrote anti-Catholic works and cultivated a local circle among the Kent gentry.
In molecular biology, restriction fragment length polymorphism, or RFLP, is a technique that exploits variations in homologous DNA sequences. It refers to a difference between samples of homologous DNA molecules from differing locations of restriction enzyme sites, and to a related laboratory technique by which these segments can be illustrated.
A rocket-propelled grenade (often abbreviated RPG) is a shoulder-fired anti-tank weapon system that fires rockets equipped with an explosive warhead. Most RPGs can be carried by an individual soldier.
Poland was ruled at various times either by dukes (the 10th–14th century) or by kings (the 11th-18th century). During the latter period, a tradition of free election of monarchs made it a uniquely electable position in Europe (16th–18th centuries).
A reflux suppressant is any one of a number of drugs used to combat oesophageal reflux. Commonly, following ingestion a 'raft' of alginic acid is created, floating on the stomach contents by carbon dioxide released by the drug.
Former Russian Empire:
Ripe may refer to:
Radiometric dating or radioactive dating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which trace radioactive impurities were selectively incorporated when they were  formed. The method compares the abundance of a naturally occurring radioactive isotope within the material to the abundance of its decay products, which form at a known constant rate of decay.
A rocket (from Italian rocchetto &quot;bobbin&quot;) is a missile, spacecraft, aircraft or other vehicle that obtains thrust from a rocket engine. Rocket engine exhaust is formed entirely from propellant carried within the rocket before use.
thumb|The five positions of Dancing. T.
Reproduction (or procreation or breeding) is the biological process by which new individual organisms – &quot;offspring&quot; – are produced from their &quot;parents&quot;. Reproduction is a fundamental feature of all known life; each individual organism exists as the result of reproduction.
This is a bibliography of works by Rudyard Kipling, including books, short stories, poems, and collections of his works.Rudyard Kipling: A Bibliographic Catalogue, James McG.
Roget's Thesaurus is a widely used English-language thesaurus, created in 1805 by Peter Mark Roget (1779–1869), British physician, natural theologian and lexicographer. It was released to the public on 29 April 1852.
Racial segregation is the separation of humans into racial or other ethnic groups in daily life. It may apply to activities such as eating in a restaurant, drinking from a water fountain, using a public toilet, attending school, going to the movies, riding on a bus, or in the rental or purchase of a homePrinciples to Guide Housing Policy at the Beginning of the Millennium, Michael Schill &amp; Susan Wachter, Cityscape or of hotel rooms.
Range may refer to:
thumb|300px|Folklands in [[Svitjod (Uppland and Gästrikland)
A ramjet, sometimes referred to as a flying stovepipe or an athodyd (an abbreviation of aero thermodynamic duct), is a form of airbreathing jet engine that uses the engine's forward motion to compress incoming air without an axial compressor. Because ramjets cannot produce thrust at zero airspeed, they cannot move an aircraft from a standstill.
8,493 Reserve personnel47 commissioned ships3 non-commissioned ships
259 aircraft
Responsible government is a conception of a system of government that embodies the principle of parliamentary accountability, the foundation of the Westminster system of parliamentary democracy. Governments (the equivalent of the executive branch) in Westminster democracies are responsible to parliament rather than to the monarch, or, in a colonial context, to the imperial government, and in a republican context, to the president, either in full or in part.
Rural flight (or rural exodus) is the migratory pattern of peoples from rural areas into urban areas.  It is urbanization seen from the rural perspective.
__NOTOC__
thumb|Radioteletype tuning indicator
In computer science, register transfer language (RTL) is a kind of intermediate representation (IR) that is very close to assembly language, such as that which is used in a compiler.  It is used to describe data flow at the register-transfer level of an architecture.
In distributed computing, a remote procedure call (RPC) is when a computer program causes a procedure (subroutine) to execute in a different address space (commonly on another computer on a shared network), which is coded as if it were a normal (local) procedure call, without the programmer explicitly coding the details for the remote interaction. That is, the programmer writes essentially the same code whether the subroutine is local to the executing program, or remote.
K-141 Kursk (, , meaning &quot;Nuclear-powered submarine Kursk&quot;) was an Oscar-II class nuclear-powered cruise-missile submarine of the Russian Navy.
Robert Gordis (February 6, 1908 – 1992) was an American leading Conservative rabbi. He founded the first Conservative Jewish day school, served as President of the Rabbinical Assembly and the Synagogue Council of America, and was a professor at Jewish Theological Seminary of America from 1940 to 1992.
RIPEMD (RACE Integrity Primitives Evaluation Message Digest) is a family of cryptographic hash functions developed in Leuven, Belgium, by Hans Dobbertin, Antoon Bosselaers and Bart Preneel at the COSIC research group at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, and first published in 1996. RIPEMD was based upon the design principles used in MD4, and is similar in performance to the more popular SHA-1.
Roman law is the legal system of ancient Rome, including Roman Military Jurisdiction and the legal developments spanning over a thousand years of jurisprudence, from the Twelve Tables (c. 449 BC), to the Corpus Juris Civilis (AD 529) ordered by Eastern Roman Emperor Justinian I.
1776
Rockwell International was a major American manufacturing conglomerate in the latter half of the 20th century, involved in aircraft, the space industry, both defense-oriented and commercial electronics, automotive and truck components, printing presses, valves and meters, and industrial automation.  It was the ultimate incarnation of a series of companies founded by Colonel Willard Rockwell.
The RFPolicy states a method of contacting vendors about security vulnerabilities found in their products.  It was originally written by hacker and security consultant Rain Forest Puppy.
thumb|right|A 17th century Icelandic manuscript depicting Ratatoskr. Although unexplained in the manuscript and not otherwise attested, in this image Ratatoskr bears a horn or tusk.
The reel is a folk dance type as well as the accompanying dance tune type. In Scottish country dancing, the reel is one of the four traditional dances, the others being the jig, the strathspey and the waltz, and is also the name of a dance figure (see below).
Remedy, Remedies, The Remedy or Remediation may refer to:
(1919–1933) (1933–1935)
Rift Valley fever (RVF) is a viral disease that can cause mild to severe symptoms. The mild symptoms may include: fever, muscle pains, and headaches which often last for up to a week.
Rogue state is a controversial term applied by some international theorists to states they consider threatening to the world's peace. This means meeting certain criteria, such as being ruled by authoritarian regimes that severely restrict human rights, sponsor terrorism, and seek to proliferate weapons of mass destruction.
In the branch of mathematics known as real analysis, the Riemann integral, created by Bernhard Riemann, was the first rigorous definition of the integral of a function on an interval.  It was presented to the faculty at the University of Göttingen in 1854, but not published in a journal until 1868.
Run-length encoding (RLE) is a very simple form of lossless data compression in which runs of data (that is, sequences in which the same data value occurs in many consecutive data elements) are stored as a single data value and count, rather than as the original run.  This is most useful on data that contains many such runs.
Two different ocean liners of the Cunard Steamship Lines have been named RMS Laconia.  Although one was launched ten years after the other, and was the subject of a TV movie, they are easily confused; they had similar careers, looked the same, and met similar fates.
}}
Rochester refers to:
Rosół   is a traditional Polish meat broth. The most popular variety is rosół z kury, or clear chicken soup.
Risk management is the identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks (defined in ISO 31000 as the effect of uncertainty on objectives) followed by coordinated and economical application of resources to minimize, monitor, and control the probability and/or impact of unfortunate events or to maximize the realization of opportunities. Risk management’s objective is to assure uncertainty does not deflect the endeavor from the business goals.
Richard Doyle may refer to:
Conversion therapy refers to the pseudoscientific practice of trying to change an individual's sexual orientation using psychological or spiritual interventions. There is virtually no reliable evidence that sexuality can be controlled or changed and medical bodies warn that conversion therapy practices are ineffective and potentially seriously harmful.
In ring theory or abstract algebra, a ring homomorphism is a function between two rings which respects the structure.
The resurrection of Jesus is the Christian religious belief that, after being put to death, Jesus rose again from the dead. It is the central tenet of Christian theology and part of the Nicene Creed: &quot;On the third day he rose again in accordance with the Scriptures&quot;.
Calvert, TexasAlthough most biographies say that Foster was born in Calvert, Texas (see Riley, p. 290), a profile in a 1922 book and 1880 census records suggest that he may have been born in Fayette County, Texas near La Grange; see  and
Clyde River|the ship|SS River Clyde}}
* Bioreactor, is a  device which controls biologically active environment.
List of reproductive issues may refer to:
In algebra, the rational root theorem (or rational root test, rational zero theorem, rational zero test or p/q theorem) states a constraint on rational solutions of a polynomial equation
The Round Table is King Arthur's famed table in the Arthurian legend, around which he and his Knights congregate. As its name suggests, it has no head, implying that everyone who sits there has equal status.
The Rosetta Stone is a granodiorite stele, found in 1799, inscribed with three versions of a decree issued at Memphis, Egypt in 196 BC during the Ptolemaic dynasty on behalf of King Ptolemy V. The top and middle texts are in Ancient Egyptian using hieroglyphic script and Demotic script, respectively, while the bottom is in Ancient Greek.
Redshirt}}
Receptor may refer to:
The Resolution class was a class of four nuclear ballistic missile submarines (SSBN) built for the Royal Navy as part of the UK Polaris programme. Each submarine was armed with up to 16 UGM-27 Polaris A-3  nuclear missiles.
* 1993 Workshop
A restaurant ( or ; ), or an eatery, is a business  which prepares and serves food and drinks to customers in exchange for money. Meals are generally served and eaten on the premises, but many restaurants also offer take-out and food delivery services, and some offer only take-out and delivery.
The red panda (Ailurus fulgens), also called the lesser panda, the red bear-cat, and the red cat-bear, is a mammal native to the eastern Himalayas and southwestern China. It has reddish-brown fur, a long, shaggy tail, and a waddling gait due to its shorter front legs; it is slightly larger than a domestic cat.
Recreational mathematics is mathematics carried out for recreation (entertainment) rather than as a strictly research and application-based professional activity. Although it is not necessarily limited to being an endeavor for amateurs, it often involves mathematical puzzles and games.
Resurrection is the concept of
Robert Ghormley Parr (September 22, 1921 – March 27, 2017) was an American theoretical chemist who was a Professor of Chemistry at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
There are several well-known theorems in functional analysis known as the Riesz representation theorem. They are named in honor of Frigyes Riesz.
The Ringworld science fiction role-playing game was published by Chaosium in 1984, using the Basic Role-Playing system for its rules and Larry Niven's Ringworld novels as a setting.
Risus: The Anything RPG is a rules-light generic role-playing game (RPG) written, designed and illustrated by S. John Ross of Cumberland Games and Diversions.
or
Amānullāh Khān reigned in Afghanistan from 1919, achieving full independence from the British Empire shortly afterwards. Before the Treaty of Rawalpindi was concluded in 1921, Afghanistan had already begun to establish its own foreign policy, including diplomatic relations with the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic in 1919.
In mathematical logic and computer science, the μ-recursive functions are a class of partial functions from natural numbers to natural numbers that are &quot;computable&quot; in an intuitive sense. In fact, in computability theory it is shown that the μ-recursive functions are precisely the functions that can be computed by Turing machines.
Rats are various medium-sized, long-tailed rodents of the superfamily Muroidea.
A replicant is a fictional bioengineered or biorobotic android in the 1982 film Blade Runner and its upcoming sequel Blade Runner 2049. The Nexus series of replicants are virtually identical to an adult human, but have superior strength, agility, and variable intelligence depending on the model.
Rust is an iron oxide, usually red oxide formed by the redox reaction of iron and oxygen in the presence of water or air moisture. Several forms of rust are distinguishable both visually and by spectroscopy, and form under different circumstances.
thumb|200px|The first four partial sums of the [[Fourier series for a square wave. Fourier series are an important tool in real analysis.
The Radio Research Project was a social research project funded by the Rockefeller Foundation to look into the effects of mass media on society.La musa venal.
}}
Calendar-based methods are various methods of estimating a woman's likelihood of fertility, based on a record of the length of previous menstrual cycles. Various methods are known as the Knaus–Ogino method and the rhythm method.
Roulette is a casino game named after the French word meaning little wheel. In the game, players may choose to place bets on either a single number or a range of numbers, the colors red or black, or whether the number is odd or even, or if the numbers are high (19–36) or low (1–18).
The Reformation, also known as the Protestant Reformation, was the 16th century schism within Western Christianity initiated by Martin Luther, John Calvin, and others
In computer science, reference counting is a technique of storing the number of references, pointers, or handles to a resource such as an object, block of memory, disk space or other resource.
The red-eye effect in photography is the common appearance of red pupils in color photographs of the eyes of humans and several other animals.  It occurs when using a photographic flash very close to the camera lens (as with most compact cameras) in ambient low light.
(ILDS B02.270), G53.
The connection between race and intelligence has been a subject of debate in both popular science and academic research since the inception of IQ testing in the early 20th century.  While tests have broadly shown differences in average scores based on self-identified race, there is considerable debate as to whether (and to what extent) those differences reflect environmental or genetic factors, as well as to the definitions of &quot;race&quot; and &quot;intelligence&quot; and whether they can be objectively defined.
Retirement is the point where a person stops employment completely.&quot;Retire: To withdraw from one's occupation, business, or office; stop working.
The Boeing RC-135 is a family of large reconnaissance aircraft built by Boeing and modified by a number of companies, including General Dynamics, Lockheed, LTV, E-Systems, and L3 Technologies, and used by the United States Air Force and Royal Air Force to support theater and national level intelligence consumers with near real-time on-scene collection, analysis and dissemination capabilities. Based on the C-135 Stratolifter airframe, various types of RC-135s have been in service since 1961.
Riverside describes anything on the bank of or alongside a river. It may refer to:
The initials RPN may refer to:
Reverse Polish notation (RPN), also known as Polish postfix notation or simply postfix notation, is a mathematical notation in which operators follow their operands, in contrast to Polish notation (PN), in which operators precede their operands. It does not need any parentheses as long as each operator has a fixed number of operands.
In phonetics, rhotic consonants,  or &quot;R-like&quot; sounds, are liquid consonants that are traditionally represented orthographically by symbols derived from the Greek letter rho, including ,  in the Latin script and ,  in the Cyrillic script. They are transcribed in the International Phonetic Alphabet by upper- or lower-case variants of Roman , : ,  , , , , , , and .
The Rob Roy is a cocktail created in 1894 by a bartender at the Waldorf Astoria in Manhattan, New York City. The drink was named in honor of the premiere of Rob Roy, an operetta by composer Reginald De Koven and lyricist Harry B.
Rob Roy most often refers to the Scottish hero Rob Roy MacGregor (, 1671–1734).
Rouge}}
Referential transparency and referential opacity are properties of parts of computer programs. An expression is said to be referentially transparent if it can be replaced with its corresponding value without changing the program's behavior.
Reaganomics (; a portmanteau of [Ronald] Reagan and economics attributed to Paul Harvey) refers to the economic policies promoted by U.S.
Rhys ap Gruffydd or ap Gruffudd (often anglicised to &quot;Griffith&quot;) (1132 – 28 April 1197) was the ruler of the kingdom of Deheubarth in south Wales from 1155 to 1197. Today, he is commonly known as The Lord Rhys, in Welsh Yr Arglwydd Rhys, although this title may have not been used in his lifetime.
Rachel Anne Summers (also known as Rachel Grey) is a fictional superheroine appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Rachel was created by writer Chris Claremont and artist/co-writer John Byrne.
Richard of Saint Victor, C.R.
Rosa}}
The Roman Curia is the administrative apparatus of the Holy See and the central body through which the Roman Pontiff conducts the affairs of the universal Catholic Church. It acts in his name and with his authority for the good and for the service of the particular Churches and provides the necessary central organization for the correct functioning of the Church and the achievement of its goals.
Romano Mussolini (26 September 1927 – 3 February 2006) was an Italian jazz pianist, painter and film producer. He was the fourth and youngest son of Benito Mussolini, fascist dictator of Italy from 1922 to 1943.
is a German word generally meaning parliament, more directly translated as Diet of the Realm or National Diet, or more loosely as Imperial Diet. It may refer to:
}}
The
is a type of Japanese pottery traditionally used in Japanese tea ceremonies, most often in the form of chawan tea bowls. It is traditionally characterised by being hand-shaped rather than thrown; fairly porous vessels, which result from low firing temperatures; lead glazes; and the removal of pieces from the kiln while still glowing hot.
}}
Rurik (also Riurik; Old Church Slavonic  Rjurikŭ, from Old Norse Hrøríkʀ;  830 – 879), according to the 12th-century Primary Chronicle, was a Varangian chieftain of the Rus' who in the year 862 gained control of Ladoga, built the Holmgard settlement near Novgorod, and established the Kievan Rus'. He is the founder of the Rurik Dynasty, which ruled the Kievan Rus' and its successor states, including  the Grand Duchy of Moscow and the Tsardom of Russia, until the 17th century.
In linear algebra, the rank of a matrix A is the dimension of the vector space generated (or spanned) by its columns.Bourbaki, Algebra, ch.
Marine archeology in the Gulf of Khambhat - earlier known as Gulf of Cambay - centers on findings made in December 2000 by the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT). NIOT came across palaeo river channels in the sea.
Regression or regressions may refer to:
WindowsOS XN-GageMobile
}}
Rennet  is a complex of enzymes produced in the stomachs of ruminant mammals.  Chymosin, its key component, is a protease enzyme that curdles the casein in milk.
A rooster, also known as a cockerel or cock, is a male gallinaceous bird, usually a male chicken (Gallus gallus).
Razz may refer to:
A rhythm guitar is a technique and role that performs a combination of two functions: to provide all or part of the rhythmic pulse in conjunction with singers or other instruments; and to provide all or part of the harmony, i.e.
* rap rock
A relay is an electrically operated switch. Many relays use an electromagnet to mechanically operate a switch, but other operating principles are also used, such as solid-state relays.
; licenses permissions Tratado de la Unión Europea  }}, pronounced: ) is as follows:
Sabbath in Christianity is the inclusion or adoption in Christianity of a Sabbath day. Established within Judaism through Mosaic Law, Christians inherited a Sabbath practice that reflected two great precepts: the commandment to &quot;remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy&quot; and God's blessing of the seventh day (Saturday) as a day of rest in the Genesis creation narrative.
**
Stanley Kubrick (; July 26, 1928 – March 7, 1999) was an American film director, screenwriter, producer, cinematographer, editor, and photographer. He is frequently cited as one of the greatest and most influential directors in cinematic history.
Statistics is a branch of mathematics dealing with the collection, analysis, interpretation, presentation, and organization of data.Dodge, Y.
In mathematics, a set is a well-defined collection of distinct objects, considered as an object in its own right. For example, the numbers 2, 4, and 6 are distinct objects when considered separately, but when they are considered collectively they form a single set of size three, written {2,4,6}.
Science (from Latin scientia, meaning &quot;knowledge&quot;) is a systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the universe.}}
There are 100 senators, two from each of the 50 U.S.
A statistic (singular) or sample statistic is a single measure of some attribute of a sample (e.g.
Sverige is the Swedish language name for Sweden and appears on postage stamps of Sweden, but may also refer to:
thumb|300px|[[The Dying Gaul, or The Capitoline Gaula Roman marble copy of a Hellenistic] work of the late 3rd century BCE [[Capitoline Museums, Rome]]
5555 ()
thumb|right|Slime mold [[Stemonitis fusca in Scotland]]
The substitution splice is a cinematic special effect in which film makers achieve an appearance, disappearance, or transformation using a cut. It is sometimes also called the stop trick or the stop motion substitution, although the effect is achieved through film editing rather than by literally stopping the camera.
Stop may refer to:
Mälardrottningen, the Capital of Scandinavia
Stamp collecting is the collecting of postage stamps and related objects. It is related to philately which is the study of stamps.
1921
}}||||}}
}}
8 min 19 s at light speed
A smiley (sometimes simply called a happy face or smiling face) is a stylized representation of a smiling humanoid face that is a part of popular culture worldwide. The classic form designed by Harvey Ball in 1963 comprises a yellow circle with two black dots representing eyes and a black arc representing the mouth (☺).
thumb|300px| [[John Hancock's signature is the most prominent on the United States Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation. The name &quot;John Hancock&quot; has become a synonym for &quot;signature&quot; in the United States.
Seal most commonly refers to:
}}
West Slavic languages
SGI may refer to:
The International System of Units (abbreviated as SI, from the French Système international (d'unités)) is the modern form of the metric system, and is the most widely used system of measurement. It comprises a coherent system of units of measurement built on seven base units.
Sapiens, a Latin word meaning wise, may refer to :
}}
Syndicalism is a proposed type of economic system, considered a replacement for capitalism. It suggests that workers, industries, and organisations be systematized into confederations or syndicates.
}}
Social science is a major category of academic disciplines, concerned with society and the relationships among individuals within a society. It in turn has many branches, each of which is considered a &quot;social science&quot;.
A statute is a formal written enactment of a legislative authority that governs a  state,  city or country. Typically, statutes command or prohibit something, or declare policy.
Statutory law or statute law is written law set down by a body of legislature or by a singular legislator (in the case of an absolute monarchy).Fundamental Law of Vatican City State, Art.
A sanction may be either a permission or a restriction, depending upon context, as the word is an auto-antonym.
Šeher, Rajvosa
Science fiction (often shortened to SF or sci-fi) is a genre of speculative fiction, typically dealing with imaginative concepts such as futuristic science and technology, space travel, time travel, faster than light travel, parallel universes, and extraterrestrial life. Science fiction often explores the potential consequences of scientific and other innovations, and has been called a &quot;literature of ideas&quot;.
}}
Sexual selection is a mode of natural selection where members of one biological sex choose mates of the other sex to mate with (intersexual selection), and compete with members of the same sex for access to members of the opposite sex (intrasexual selection). These two forms of selection mean that some individuals have better reproductive success than others within a population, either from being more attractive or preferring more attractive partners to produce offspring.
Satire is a genre of literature, and sometimes graphic and performing arts, in which vices, follies, abuses, and shortcomings are held up to ridicule, ideally with the intent of shaming individuals, corporations, government, or society itself into improvement.  Although satire is usually meant to be humorous, its greater purpose is often constructive social criticism, using wit to draw attention to both particular and wider issues in society.
Samuel Butler}}
This is a list of science fiction and fantasy artists, 20th- and 21st-century artists who have created book covers or interior illustrations for books, or who have published their own books or comic books of fantastic art with science fiction or fantasy themes. Artists known exclusively for their work in comic books are not included.
The saxophone (also referred to as the sax) is a family of woodwind instruments. Saxophones are usually made of brass and played with a single-reed mouthpiece similar to that of the clarinet.
thumb|Four sackbuts: two tenors [left &amp; mid], alto [top], bass [right]
The saxhorn  is a family of valved brass instruments that have conical bores and deep cup-shaped mouthpieces. The saxhorn family was developed by Adolphe Sax, who is also known for creating the saxophone family.
Scanner may refer to:
Organisms of many species are specialized into male and female varieties, each known as a sex,sex. CollinsDictionary.
A star is a luminous sphere of plasma held together by its own gravity. The nearest star to Earth is the Sun.
s box art depicts a Protoss warrior, flanked by a Zerg creature and a Terran soldier.
Skepticism (American English) or scepticism (British English; see spelling differences) is generally any questioning attitude or doubt towards one or more items of putative knowledge or belief.&quot;Philosophical views are typically classed as skeptical when they involve advancing some degree of doubt regarding claims that are elsewhere taken for granted.
In economics, stagflation, a portmanteau of stagnation and inflation, is a situation in which the inflation rate is high, the economic growth rate slows, and unemployment remains steadily high. It raises a dilemma for economic policy, since actions designed to lower inflation may exacerbate unemployment, and vice versa.
In mathematical logic, a logical system has the soundness property if and only if its inference rules prove only formulas that are valid with respect to its semantics. In symbols, if A1, A2, ...
A syllabary is a set of written symbols that represent the syllables or (more frequently) moras which make up words.
Stephen Michael Reich (https://en.oxforddictionaries.
S&amp;P 500 Component
,
Sodium is a chemical element with symbol Na (from Latin natrium) and atomic number 11. It is a soft, silvery-white, highly reactive metal.
In the mathematical field of category theory, the category of sets, denoted as Set, is the category whose objects are sets.  The arrows or morphisms between sets A and B are all triples (f, A, B) where f is a function from A to B.
The scientific method is a body of techniques for investigating phenomena, acquiring new knowledge, or correcting and integrating previous knowledge. To be termed scientific, a method of inquiry is commonly based on empirical or measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning.
A shotgun (also known as a scattergun, or historically as a fowling piece) is a firearm that is usually designed to be fired from the shoulder, which uses the energy of a fixed shell to fire a number of small spherical pellets called shot, or a solid projectile called a slug. Shotguns come in a wide variety of sizes, ranging from 5.
(&quot;Strength from Many Peoples&quot;)
Summer solstice is the astronomical phenomenon that occurs on the longest day of the year.
Salting may refer to:
Socialism is a range of economic and social systems characterised by social ownership and democratic control of the means of production,&quot;What else does a socialist economic system involve? Those who favor socialism generally speak of social ownership, social control, or socialization of the means of production as the distinctive positive feature of a socialist economic system&quot; N.
Synergy is the creation of a whole that is greater than the simple sum of its parts.  The term synergy comes from the Attic Greek word συνεργία &quot;synergy&quot;.
In linguistics, syntax (}}}}) is the set of rules, principles, and processes that govern the structure of sentences in a given language, specifically word order and punctuation. The term syntax is also used  to refer to the study of such principles and processes.
Shamanism (  or  ) is a practice that involves a practitioner reaching altered states of consciousness in order to perceive and interact with a spirit world and channel these transcendental energies into this world.Hoppál 1987.
Sexology is the scientific study of human sexuality, including human sexual interests, behaviors and functions. The term sexology does not generally refer to the non-scientific study of sexuality, such as political science or social criticism.
Under the 1977 Constitution of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), the Chairman of the Council of Ministers was the head of government and the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet was the head of state. The office of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers was comparable to a prime minister in the First World, whereas the office of the Chairman of the Presidium was comparable to a president in the First World.
Seafood is any form of sea life regarded as food by humans. Seafood prominently includes fish and shellfish.
The International System of Units (SI) defines seven units of measure as a basic set from which all other SI units can be derived. The SI base units and their physical quantities are the metre for measurement of length, the kilogram for mass, the second for time, the ampere for electric current, the kelvin for temperature, the candela for luminous intensity, and the mole for amount of substance.
The second (symbol: s) (abbreviated s or sec) is the base unit of time in the International System of Units / Système International d'Unités (SI).
A metric prefix is a unit prefix that precedes a basic unit of measure to indicate a multiple or fraction of the unit. While all metric prefixes in common use today are decadic, historically there have been a number of binary metric prefixes as well.
The International System of Units (SI) specifies a set of seven base units from which all other SI units of measurement are derived. These SI derived units are either dimensionless, or can be expressed as a product of one or more of the base units, possibly scaled by an appropriate power of exponentiation.
In poker it is sometimes necessary to split, or divide the pot among two or more players rather than awarding it all to a single player.  This can happen because of ties, and also by playing intentional split-pot poker variants (the most typical of these is high-low split poker, where the high hand and low hand split the pot).
Superconductivity is a phenomenon of exactly zero electrical resistance and expulsion of magnetic flux fields occurring in certain materials, called superconductors, when cooled below a characteristic critical temperature. It was discovered by Dutch physicist Heike Kamerlingh Onnes on April 8, 1911, in Leiden.
Siam is an exonym that was formerly used as the name of Thailand, especially Central, Eastern, Western, and Southern Thailand.
Sweden is a country in Northern Europe on the Scandinavian Peninsula. It borders Norway to the west; Finland to the northeast; and the Baltic Sea and Gulf of Bothnia to the south and east.
The demography of Sweden is monitored by Statistics Sweden (SCB). As of 31 December 2015, the population of Sweden was estimated to be 9.
This article covers telecommunications in Sweden.
Transportation in Sweden is carried out by car, bus, train, boat or aeroplane.
The foreign policy of Sweden is based on the premise that national security is best served by staying free of alliances in peacetime in order to remain a neutral country in the event of war. In 2002, Sweden revised its security doctrine.
A spice is a seed, fruit, root, bark, or other plant substance primarily used for flavoring, coloring or preserving food. Spices are distinguished from herbs, which are the leaves, flowers, or stems from plants used for flavoring or as a garnish.
A sect is a subgroup of a religious, political, or philosophical belief system, usually an offshoot of a larger group. Although the term was originally a classification for religious separated groups, it can now refer to any organization that breaks away from a larger one to follow a different set of rules and principles.
Satureja is a genus of aromatic plants of the family Lamiaceae, related to rosemary and thyme. It is native to North Africa, southern and southeastern Europe, the Middle East, and Central Asia.
}}
A siege is a military blockade of a city or fortress with the intent of conquering by attrition. This derives from sedere, Latin for &quot;to sit&quot;.
For semantic arguments in linguistics, see verb argument.
Social engineering may refer to:
275px|thumb|upright|The Eisenhower Locks in [[Massena (town), New York|Massena, NY.]]
Campania 1 Lombardy 1  Lazio 1
Sprung rhythm is a poetic rhythm designed to imitate the rhythm of natural speech. It is constructed from feet in which the first syllable is stressed and may be followed by a variable number of unstressed syllables.
Sapindales  is an order of flowering plants. Well-known members of Sapindales include citrus; maples, horse-chestnuts, lychees and rambutans; mangos and cashews; frankincense and myrrh; mahogany and neem.
Sheepshead}}
The principle of linguistic relativity holds that the structure of a language affects its speakers' world view or cognition. Popularly known as the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, or Whorfianism, the principle is often defined to include two versions.
Statutes of limitations are laws passed by legislative bodies in common law systems to set the maximum time after an event within which legal proceedings may be initiated.
A submarine sandwich, also known as a sub, wedge, hoagie, hero, grinder, or Italian sandwich, is a type of sandwich that consists of a length of bread or  roll split lengthwise and filled with a variety of meats, cheeses, vegetables, and condiments. The sandwich has no standardized name, with over a dozen regional variations used across the U.
The Semitic languages are a branch of the Afroasiatic language family originating in the Middle East. Semitic languages are spoken by more than 330 million people across much of Western Asia, North Africa and the Horn of Africa, as well as in often large expatriate communities in North America and Europe, with smaller communities in the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Spenser—his first name is never officially revealed—is a fictional character in a series of detective novels initially by the American mystery writer Robert B. Parker and later by Ace Atkins.
Spanish may refer to a cluster of ethnic groups or nationals of Spain (see ethnic groups in Spain and Spanish nationality law)
thumb|right|Elly del Sarto, a sideshow performer, in c. 1910
Scorpio is the Latin word for scorpion.
, genitive
, genitive
Schema}}
SF  may refer to:
Spinning is the twisting together of drawn out strands of fibers to form yarn, and is a major part of the textile industry. The yarn is then used to create textiles, which are then used to make clothing and many other products.
Soviet Republic}}
The slave narrative is a type of literary work that is made up of the written accounts of enslaved Africans in Great Britain and its colonies, including the later United States, Canada, and Caribbean nations. Some six thousand former slaves from North America and the Caribbean gave accounts of their lives during the 18th and 19th centuries, with about 150 narratives published as separate books or pamphlets.
A silent film is a film with no synchronized recorded sound, especially with no spoken dialogue. The silent film era lasted from 1895 to 1936.
Shia (;  Shīʿah, from Shīʻatu ʻAlī, followers of Ali) is a branch of Islam which holds that the Islamic prophet Muhammad designated Ali ibn Abi Talib as his successor (Imam). Shia Islam primarily contrasts with Sunni Islam, whose adherents believe that Muhammad did not appoint a successor and consider Abu Bakr (who was appointed Caliph through a shura, i.
In physics, special relativity (SR, also known as the special theory of relativity or STR) is the generally accepted and experimentally well-confirmed physical theory regarding the relationship between space and time. In Albert Einstein's original pedagogical treatment, it is based on two postulates:
Stephenson is a medieval patronymic surname meaning &quot;son of Stephen&quot;. The earliest public record is found in the county of Huntingdonshire in 1279.
Sedan may refer to:
SUV may refer to:
)
(as Laurin &amp; Klement)
A seat is a place to sit, referring to the area sat upon as opposed to other elements like armrests.
The Scandinavian Peninsula (; ; ; ; , Skandinavsky poluostrov) is a peninsula in Northern Europe, which generally comprises the mainland of Sweden, the mainland of Norway (with the exception of a small coastal area bordering Russia), the northwestern area of Finland, as well as a narrow area in the west of the Pechengsky District of Russia.
right|300px|thumb|USGS Satellite photo of the San Francisco Bay Area. The San Francisco peninsula protrudes northward.
Silicon Valley is a nickname for the southern portion of the San Francisco Bay Area, in the northern part of the U.S.
Substance may refer to:
Solaris, a Latin word meaning &quot;pertaining to the sun&quot;, may refer to:
}}
Salinity is the saltiness or amount of salt dissolved in a body of water (see also soil salinity). This is usually measured in \frac{g \ \textrm{salt}}{kg \  \textrm{sea} \  \textrm{water}} (note that this is technically dimensionless).
As of the APG III system:
The Sony CLIÉ is a series of personal digital assistants running the Palm Operating System developed and marketed by Sony from 2000 to 2005. The devices introduced many new features to the PDA market, such as a jog-wheel interface, high-resolution displays, and Sony technologies like Memory Stick slots and ATRAC3 audio playback.
*
Social psychology is the scientific study of how people's thoughts, feelings, and behaviors are influenced by the actual, imagined, or implied presence of others.p.
A  shire is a traditional term for a division of land, found in the United Kingdom and some other English speaking countries. It was first used in Wessex from the beginning of Anglo-Saxon settlement, and spread to most of the rest of England in the tenth century.
A scientist is a person engaging in a systematic activity to acquire knowledge that describes and predicts the natural world. In a more restricted sense, a scientist may refer to an individual who uses the scientific method.
thumb|Smog in [[New York City as viewed from the World Trade Center in 1988]]
Smoke is a collection of airborne solid and liquid particulates and gasesSmoke Production and Properties - SFPE Handbook of Fire Protection Engineering emitted when a material undergoes combustion or pyrolysis, together with the quantity of air that is entrained or otherwise mixed into the mass. It is commonly an unwanted by-product of fires (including stoves, candles, oil lamps, and fireplaces), but may also be used for pest control (fumigation), communication (smoke signals), defensive and offensive capabilities in the military (smoke-screen), cooking, or smoking (tobacco, cannabis, etc.
}}
Swiss cheese is a generic name in North America for several related varieties of cheese, mainly of North American manufacture, which resemble Emmental cheese, a yellow, medium-hard cheese that originated in the area around Emmental, in Switzerland. Some types of Swiss cheese have a distinctive appearance, as the blocks of the cheese are riddled with holes known as &quot;eyes&quot;.
Spontaneous combustion is the self-ignition of a mass, for example, a pile of oily rags.  Allegedly, humans can also ignite and burn without an obvious cause; this phenomenon is known as spontaneous human combustion.
The smoke signal is one of the oldest forms of long-distance communication. It is a form of visual communication used over long distance.
Happy Accidents}}
A ship is a large watercraft that travels the world's oceans and other sufficiently deep waterways, carrying passengers or goods, or in support of specialized missions, such as defense, research and fishing. Historically, a &quot;ship&quot; was a sailing vessel with at least three square-rigged masts and a full bowsprit.
A soap opera or soap, is a serial drama on television or radio that examines the lives of many characters, usually focusing on emotional relationships to the point of melodrama. The term soap opera originated from such dramas in the past being typically sponsored by soap manufacturers.
Software engineering (SE) is the application of engineering to the development of software in a systematic method.
}}
Software crisis is a term used in the early days of computing science for the difficulty of writing useful and efficient computer programs in the required time. The software crisis was due to the rapid increases in computer power and the complexity of the problems that could not be tackled.
The Swedish Academy (), founded in 1786 by King Gustav III, is one of the Royal Academies of Sweden. It is known for making the annual decision on who will be the laureate for the Nobel Prize in Literature, awarded in memory of the donor Alfred Nobel.
Sture Allén (born 31 December 1928 in Gothenburg) is a Swedish retired professor of computational linguistics at the University of Gothenburg, who was the permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy between 1986 and 1999. He was elected to chair 3 of the Swedish Academy in 1980.
Stress may refer to:
Daehan Minguk
The history of South Korea formally begins with its establishment on 17 August 1948, although Syngman Rhee had officially declared independence two days prior.
thumb|right|250px|Map of South Korea
This article is about the demographic features of the population of South Korea, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the Republic of Korea takes place in the framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President is the head of state, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
(2017) PPP: $1.9865 trillion (2017)
Communications services improved dramatically in the 1980s with the assistance of foreign partners and as a result of the development of the electronics industry. The number of telephones in use in 1987 reached 9.
Transportation in South Korea is provided by extensive networks of railways, highways, bus routes, ferry services and air routes that criss-cross the country. South Korea is the third country in the world to operate a commercial maglev train.
The foreign relations of South Korea (officially the Republic of Korea) are South Korean relations with other governments.
The largest cities of South Korea have an autonomous status equivalent to that of provinces. Seoul, the largest city and capital, is classified as a teukbyeolsi (Special City), while the next 6 largest cities (see the list below) are classified as gwangyeoksi (Metropolitan Cities; see Special cities of South Korea).
Rock-paper-scissors (also known as paper, rock, scissors or paper, scissors, stone) is a hand game usually played between two people, in which each player simultaneously forms one of three shapes with an outstretched hand. These shapes are &quot;rock&quot; (a simple fist), &quot;paper&quot; (a flat hand), and &quot;scissors&quot; (a fist with the index and middle fingers extended, forming a V).
Logudorese Sardinian (, ) is a standardised variety of Sardinian, often considered the most conservative of all Romance languages. Its ISO 639-3 code is src.
Sardinian (sardu, limba sarda, lingua sarda) or Sard is the primary indigenous Romance language spoken on most of the island of Sardinia (Italy). Among the Romance languages, it is considered one of the closest genealogical descendants, if not the closest, to Latin.
Shot reverse shot (or shot/countershot) is a film technique where one character is shown looking at another character (often off-screen), and then the other character is shown looking back at the first character. Since the characters are shown facing in opposite directions, the viewer assumes that they are looking at each other.
}}
Screwball comedy is principally a genre of comedy film that became popular during the Great Depression, originating in the early 1930s and thriving until the early 1940s. Many secondary characteristics of this genre are similar to film noir, but it distinguishes itself for being characterized by a female that dominates the relationship with the male central character, whose masculinity is challenged.
This is a list of science fiction films organized chronologically. These films have been released to a cinema audience by the commercial film industry and are widely distributed with reviews by reputable
}}
An administrative division, unit, entity, area or region, also referred to as a subnational entity, constituent unit, or  country subdivision, is a portion of a country or other region delineated for the purpose of administration. Administrative divisions are granted a certain degree of autonomy and are usually required to manage themselves through their own local governments.
A service mark or servicemark is a trademark used in the United States and several other countries to identify a service rather than a product.The official definition in U.
Steel is an alloy of iron and other elements, primarily carbon. Because of its high tensile strength and low cost, it is a major component in buildings, infrastructure, tools, ships, automobiles, machines, appliances, and weapons.
In metallurgy, stainless steel, also known as inox steel or inox from French inoxydable ([is a steel] [[alloy with a minimum of 10.5% chromium content by mass.
Stig Andersson}}
A soft drink (see terminology for other names) is a drink that typically contains carbonated water, a sweetener, and a natural or artificial flavoring. The sweetener may be sugar, high-fructose corn syrup, fruit juice, sugar substitutes (in the case of diet drinks), or some combination of these.
Sockerdricka (Swedish for: sugar drink) is a soft drink dating from the 19th century. Originally it was brewed and also contained ginger (known as the Boyle component), but nowadays it consists of carbonated water, sugar, citric acid, and flavorants.
Standardization or standardisation is the process of implementing and developing technical standards based on the consensus of different parties that include firms, users, interest groups, standards organizations and governments Standardization can help to maximize compatibility, interoperability, safety, repeatability, or quality. It can also facilitate commoditization of formerly custom processes.
Sub-Saharan Africa is, geographically, the area of the continent of Africa that lies south of the Sahara. According to the UN, it consists of all African countries that are fully or partially located south of the Sahara.
The Sahara Desert ecoregion, as defined by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), includes the hyper-arid center of the Sahara, between 18° and 30° N. It is one of several desert and xeric shrubland ecoregions that cover the northern portion of the African continent.
1840}}
Starship Enterprise}}
Star Trek: Enterprise is an American science fiction television series that originally aired on the UPN network from September 26, 2001 to May 13, 2005. Until the episode &quot;Extinction&quot; towards the start of the third season, the series was called simply Enterprise without the Star Trek prefix.
}}
}}
}}
Martok, son of Urthog is a recurring character in Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, played by actor J. G.
USS Voyager
B'Elanna Torres  is a main character in Star Trek: Voyager played by Roxann Dawson. She is portrayed as a half-human half-Klingon born in 2346 on the Federation colony Kessik IV.
In the American Star Trek science fiction franchise, the Maquis  are a 24th-century paramilitary organization/terrorist group (like the French Resistance, sometimes referred to as the Maquis, and the Spanish Maquis) first introduced in the 1994 episode &quot;The Maquis&quot; of the television series Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, who subsequently also appeared in Star Trek: The Next Generation and Star Trek: Voyager.
Kes  is a character in the American science fiction television series Star Trek: Voyager,Ruditis (2016): pp. 200-201 played by Jennifer Lien.
Created by Gene Roddenberry, the science fiction television series Star Trek (which eventually acquired the retronym Star Trek: The Original Series) starred William Shatner as Captain Kirk, Leonard Nimoy as Mr. Spock, and DeForest Kelley as Dr.
* 480i (4:3 SDTV)
}}
}}
USS Enterprise-DStarfleet Command
Human
USS Enterprise-D
Hoshi Sato , played by Korean American actress Linda Park, is a fictional character in the science fiction television series Star Trek: Enterprise.
The Romulans are an extraterrestrial humanoid species in the science fiction franchise Star Trek. First appearing in the original Star Trek series in the 1966 episode &quot;Balance of Terror&quot;, they have since made appearances in all the main later Star Trek series: The Animated Series, The Next Generation, Deep Space Nine, Voyager and Enterprise.
Enterprise or USS Enterprise (often referred to as &quot;The Starship Enterprise&quot;) is the name of several fictional spacecraft, some of which are the main craft and setting for various television series and films in the Star Trek science fiction franchise.
Secularism is the principle of the separation of government institutions and persons mandated to represent the state from religious institutions and religious dignitaries (the attainment of such is termed secularity). One manifestation of secularism is asserting the right to be free from religious rule and teachings, or, in a state declared to be neutral on matters of belief, from the imposition by government of religion or religious practices upon its people.
Silicon is a chemical element with symbol Si and atomic number 14. A hard and brittle crystalline solid with a blue-gray metallic luster, it is a tetravalent metalloid.
Sulfur is a chemical element.
Scandium is a chemical element with symbol Sc and atomic number 21. A silvery-white metallic d-block element, it has historically been sometimes classified as a rare-earth element, together with yttrium and the lanthanides.
Selenium is a chemical element with symbol Se and atomic number 34. It is a nonmetal with properties that are intermediate between the elements above and below in the periodic table, sulfur and tellurium, and also has similarities to arsenic.
Strontium is the chemical element with symbol Sr and atomic number 38. An alkaline earth metal, strontium is a soft silver-white yellowish metallic element that is highly reactive chemically.
Silver is a chemical element with symbol Ag (from the Latin , derived from the Greek ὰργὀς: &quot;shiny&quot; or &quot;white&quot;) and atomic number 47. A soft, white, lustrous transition metal, it exhibits the highest electrical conductivity, thermal conductivity, and reflectivity of any metal.
Samarium is a chemical element with symbol Sm and atomic number 62. It is a moderately hard silvery metal that readily oxidizes in air.
Sulfur or sulphur (see spelling and etymology) is a chemical element with symbol S and atomic number 16. It is abundant, multivalent, and nonmetallic.
SPD often stands for the Social Democratic Party of Germany, one of the two biggest political parties in Germany.
__NOTOC__
Structuralist film theory is a branch of film theory that is rooted in structuralism, itself based on structural linguistics.
An epileptic seizure, also known as an epileptic fit, seizure or fit, is a brief episode of signs or symptoms due to abnormal excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain. The outward effect can vary from uncontrolled jerking movement (tonic-clonic seizure) to as subtle as a momentary loss of awareness (absence seizure).
Svenska Akademiens ordlista (), abbreviated SAOL, is a glossary published every few years by the Swedish Academy. It is a single volume that is considered the final arbiter of Swedish spelling.
Stockholm
Scotland Yard (officially New Scotland Yard) is a metonym for the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Service (MPS), the territorial police force responsible for policing most of London.
Sherlock Holmes () is a fictional private detective created by British author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.  Known as a &quot;consulting detective&quot; in the stories, Holmes is known for his proficiency with observation, forensic science, and logical reasoning that borders on the fantastic, which he employs when investigating cases for a wide variety of clients, including Scotland Yard.
A scroll is a roll of parchment, papyrus, or paper, which has been drawn or written upon.
A slow fire is a term used in library and information science to describe paper embrittlement resulting from acid decay. The term is taken from the title of Terry Sanders' 1987 film Slow Fires: On the preservation of the human record.
In computer science, sequential access means that a group of elements (such as data in a memory array or a disk file or on magnetic tape data storage) is accessed in a predetermined, ordered sequence. Sequential access is sometimes the only way of accessing the data, for example if it is on a tape.
Sexism or gender discrimination is prejudice or discrimination based on a person's sex or gender. Sexism can affect either gender, but it is particularly documented as affecting women and girls.
ESS}}
A shoe is an item of footwear intended to protect and comfort the human foot while the wearer is doing various activities. Shoes are also used as an item of decoration and fashion.
Slang refers to words, phrases and uses that are regarded as very informal and often restricted to special context or peculiar to a specified profession class and the like. Slang words are used in specific social groups, like teenagers.
A skinhead is a member of a subculture originating among working class youths in London, England in the 1960s that soon spread to other parts of the United Kingdom, with a second working class skinhead movement spreading worldwide in the 1980s. Motivated by social alienation and working class solidarity, skins are defined by their close-cropped or shaven heads and working class clothing such as Dr.
}}
Saint Helena has a known history of over 500 years since its recorded discovery by the Portuguese in 1502. Claiming to be Britain's second oldest colony, this is one of the most isolated islands in the world and was for several centuries of vital strategic importance to ships sailing to Europe from Asia and South Africa.
thumb|St Helena island
This article is about the demographic features of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, a British overseas territory in the south Atlantic Ocean.
Politics of Saint Helena takes place in a framework of limited self-government as a dependent territory of the United Kingdom, whereby the Governor is the head of government. Saint Helena, an island in the southern Atlantic Ocean, is a part of the British overseas territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.
The economy of Saint Helena grows through export income from coffee, tourism, fishing, and sales of alcoholic liqueurs.  Unemployment is very low in Saint Helena; the February 2016 Census stated only 76 people self declared that they were unemployed (with 10 claiming unemployment benefit) compared to an economically active population of 2,539 and a total population of 4,534.
Saint Helena has  —  paved and  unpaved — of roads.CIA World Factbook St Helena The only major harbour is James Bay at Jamestown, Saint Helena, which has customs and immigration buildings.
Saint Kitts and Nevis have one of the longest written histories in the Caribbean, both islands being among Spain's and England's first colonies in the archipelago. Despite being only two miles apart and quite diminutive in size, Saint Kitts and Nevis were widely recognized as being separate entities with distinct identities until they were forcibly united in the late 19th century.
Saint Kitts and Nevis is a twin island country with a total landmass of just . The island of St.
This article is about the demographics of the population of Saint Kitts and Nevis, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Saint Kitts and Nevis takes place in the framework of a federal parliamentary democracy. Saint Kitts and Nevis is an independent Commonwealth realm with Elizabeth II as its head of state, represented by a governor-general.
Transport within the Caribbean islands of Saint Kitts and Nevis (one country, a two-island federation) includes normal road traffic, public buses, taxis, ferries, airports, and one unusual railway.
Saint Kitts and Nevis has no major international disputes. Its status as a transshipment point for South American drugs destined for the United States and Europe has caused some tension with foreign countries.
According to some, Saint Lucia was first inhabited sometime between 1000 and 500 BC by the Ciboney people, but there is not a lot of evidence of their presence on the island. The first proven inhabitants were the peaceful Arawaks, believed to have come from northern South America around 200-400 AD, as there are numerous archaeological sites on the island where specimens of the Arawaks' well-developed pottery have been found.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Saint Lucia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Saint Lucia takes place in the framework of an independent parliamentary democratic constitutional monarchy, with Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state, represented by a Governor General, who acts on the advice of the prime minister and the cabinet. The prime minister is the leader of the majority party of the house, and the cabinet conducts affairs of state.
Saint Lucia is one of the Windward Islands, a group of islands located off the southeast coast of North America.  Due to its small size and relative lack of geological resources, its 2000s economy relies primarily on the sale of banana crops, and the income generated from tourism, with additional input from small-scale manufacturing.
Communications in Saint Lucia
*Railways: 0 km
Military branches:
Saint Lucia maintains friendly relations with the major powers active in the Caribbean, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, and France. Saint Lucia has no extant international disputes, aside from tension resulting from the island's status as a transit point for South American drugs destined for the United States and Europe.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Saint Pierre and Miquelon, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Saint Pierre and Miquelon takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic French overseas collectivity, whereby the President of the Territorial Council is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$215.3 million (2006 est.
Telecommunications in Saint Pierre and Miquelon include telephone, radio, television, and internet usage.
thumb|400px|right|Kingstown, St. Vincent, 1890s
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is an island state in the Windward Islands of the Lesser Antilles, an island arc of the Caribbean Sea in North America.  The country consists of the main island of Saint Vincent and the northern two-thirds of the Grenadines, a chain of small islands stretching south from Saint Vincent to Grenada.  Its total land area is 390 km² of which 342.7 km² is the main island of Saint Vincent.  The country's capital is at Kingstown on Saint Vincent.
This article is about the demographics of the population of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, including population density, ethnicity, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines takes place in the framework of a parliamentary democracy. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is an independent Commonwealth realm, with Queen Elizabeth II as its head of state, represented by a Governor General, who acts on the advice of the prime minister and the cabinet.
}}
}}
There are no railways in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
Military branches:
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines maintains close ties to the U.S.
oloto Tutoatasi o Sāmoa}}
The Samoan Islands were first settled some 3,500 years ago as part of the Austronesian expansion.
thumb|right|300px|Map of Samoa
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Samoa, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Samoa takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic state whereby the Prime Minister of Samoa is the head of government. Existing alongside the country's Western styled political system is the fa'amatai chiefly system of socio-political governance and organisation, central to understanding Samoa's political system.
}}
This article is about communications systems in Samoa.
Transport in Samoa includes one international airport situated on the north west coast of Upolu island, paved highways reaching most parts of the two main, one main port in the capital Apia and two ports servicing mainly inter island ferries for vehicles and passengers between the two main islands, Upolu and Savai'i.
Samoa has no formal defense structure or regular armed forces; informal defense ties exist with New Zealand, which is required to consider any Samoan request for assistance under the 1962 Treaty of Friendship.
The history of San Marino is typical for the Italian Peninsula, and yet helps explain its unusual characteristics as the sole remaining Italian microstate.
thumb|Satellite image
The demographics of San Marino, include population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of San Marino takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Captains Regent are the heads of state and heads of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$1.365 billion (PPP 2012 est.
This article provides an outline of the telecommunications infrastructure in San Marino.
San Marino is a small European republic, with limited public transport facilities. It is an enclave in central Italy.
San Marino has one of the smallest military forces in the world. Its different branches have varied functions including: performing ceremonial duties; patrolling borders; mounting guard at government buildings; and assisting police in major criminal cases.
San Marino is an independent and sovereign member of the international community. It maintains an extensive diplomatic network in relation to its diminutive size as well as an active foreign policy and international presence.
thumb|right|200px|Coat of Arms of colonial São Tomé and Príncipe
São Tomé and Príncipe is a small nation composed of an archipelago located in the Gulf of Guinea of equatorial Atlantic Ocean. The nation's main islands are São Tomé Island and Príncipe Island, for which the country is named.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of São Tomé and Príncipe, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
}}
Telephones - main lines in use:
Transport in São Tomé and Príncipe relies primarily on road infrastructure for local needs and airports and sea travel for international needs. São Tomé and Príncipe does not have railways.
The Armed Forces of São Tomé e Príncipe (FASTP, Forças Armadas de São Tomé e Príncipe in Portuguese) are the armed forces of the island nation of São Tomé and Príncipe, off the coast of West Africa. The islands' military consists of a small land and naval contingent, with a limited budget.
The history of Saudi Arabia in its current form as a state began with its foundation in 1930 by Abdulaziz Al Saud, although the human history of the region extends as far as 20,000 years ago. The region has had a global impact twice in world history:
thumb|right|300px|Detailed map of Saudi Arabia and its [[Regions of Saudi Arabia|regions]]
The politics of Saudi Arabia takes place in the context of an absolute monarchy with some Islamic lines, where the King is both the head of state and government. Decisions are, to a large extent, made on the basis of consultation among the senior princes of the royal family and the religious establishment.
}}
With the arrival of petrodollars, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has initiated many mega infrastructure development projects in the country, and the extensive development of the transportation network has followed suit in support of various economic developments. As a result, the country now boasts an extensive transportation network.
Saudi Arabia is a non-aligned state whose stated foreign policy objectives are to maintain its security and its paramount position on the Arabian Peninsula, and as the world's largest exporter of oil, to maintain cooperative relations with other oil-producing and major oil-consuming countries.
The history of Senegal is commonly divided into a number of periods, encompassing the prehistoric era, the precolonial period, colonialism, and the contemporary era.
right|thumb
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Senegal, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics in Senegal takes place within the framework of a semi-presidential, democratic republic. The President of Senegal is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Senegal is the head of government.
}}
Telecommunications in Senegal include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article describes the system of transport in Senegal, both public and private. This system comprises roads (both paved and unpaved), rail transport, water transport, and air transportation.
President Léopold Senghor advocated close relations with France and negotiation and compromise as the best means of resolving international differences. To a large extent, the two succeeding Presidents have carried on Senghor's policies and philosophies.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Seychelles, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Seychelles takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Seychelles is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
}}
In the Seychelles, local and international telecommunications lines are operated by Cable &amp; Wireless. In 1997 there were around 11,000 telephone lines and in excess of 20,000 telephones, meaning that over half of the population have a home telephone.
thumb|right|230px|[[Seychelles International Airport]]
The Military of Seychelles is the Seychelles People's Defence Force which consists of a number of distinct branches:  including an Infantry Unit, Coast Guard, Air Force and a Presidential Protection Unit.
Seychelles follows a policy of what it describes as &quot;positive&quot; nonalignment and strongly supports the principle of reduced superpower presence in the Indian Ocean. The Seychelles government is one of the proponents of the Indian Ocean zone of peace concept and it has promoted an end to the United States presence on Diego Garcia.
The history of Sierra Leone began when the land became inhabited by indigenous African peoples at least 2,500 years ago. The dense tropical rainforest partially isolated the region from other West African cultures, and it became a refuge for peoples escaping violence and jihads.
Sierra Leone is located on the west coast of Africa, between the 7th and 10th parallels north of the equator.  Sierra Leone is bordered by Guinea to the north and northeast, Liberia to the south and southeast, and the Atlantic Ocean to the west.
The demographics of Sierra Leone are made up of an indigenous population from 18 ethnic groups. The Temne in the north and the Mende in the South are the largest.
Sierra Leone is a country located in West Africa, known officially as the Republic of Sierra Leone.
$8.412 billion (PPP) (2012 est.
Telecommunications in Sierra Leone include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
thumb|350px|The road from [[Kenema to Kailahun District.]]
}}}}
The demographics of Singapore include the population statistics of Singapore such as population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other demographic data of the population.
The politics of Singapore takes the form of a parliamentary representative democratic republic whereby the President of Singapore is the head of state, the Prime Minister of Singapore is the head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the cabinet from the parliament, and to a lesser extent, the President.
The telecommunication infrastructure of Singapore spans the entire city-state. Its development level is high, with close accessibility to the infrastructure from nearly all inhabited parts of the island and for all of the population, with exceptions.
Transport within Singapore is mainly land-based. Many parts of Singapore are accessible by road, including islands such as Sentosa and Jurong Island.
Singapore maintains diplomatic relations with 189 countries although it does not maintain a high commission or embassy in many of those countries. It is a member of the United Nations, the Commonwealth, ASEAN and the Non-Aligned Movement.
This article discusses the history of the territory of Slovakia.
Slovakia is a landlocked Central European country with mountainous regions in the north and flat terrain in the south.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Slovakia, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population. The demographic statistics are from the Statistical Office of the SR, unless otherwise indicated.
Politics of Slovakia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, with a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in the parliament and it can be exercised in some cases also by the government or directly by citizens.
$168.8 billion (PPP, 2016 est.
Telecommunications in Slovakia includes fixed and mobile telephones, radio, television, and the Internet.
Transport in Slovakia is possible by rail, road, air or rivers. Slovakia is a developed Central European country with a well-developed rail network (3,662 km) and a highway system (225.
}}
The history of Slovenia chronicles the period of the Slovene territory from the 5th century BC to the present. In the Early Bronze Age, Proto-Illyrian tribes settled an area stretching from present-day Albania to the city of Trieste.
Slovenia is situated in Central Europe touching the Alps and bordering the Mediterranean. The Alps — including the Julian Alps, the Kamnik-Savinja Alps and the Karavanke chain, as well as the Pohorje massif — dominate Northern Slovenia along its long border to Austria.
The politics of Slovenia takes place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Slovenia is the head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the Government of Slovenia.
$43.503 billion (Nominal) $69.
This article refers to Telecommunications in Slovenia.
The location at the junction of the Mediterranean, the Alps, the Dinarides and the Pannonian Plain and the area being traversed by major rivers have been the reasons for the intersection of the main transport routes in Slovenia. Their course was established already in Antiquity.
Since Slovenia declared independence in 1991, its Governments have underscored their commitment in improving cooperation with neighbouring countries and to actively contribute to international efforts aimed at bringing stability to Southeast Europe. Resource limitations have nevertheless been a problem hindering the efficiency of the Slovenian diplomacy.
Solomon Islands is a sovereign state in the Melanesia subregion of Oceania in the western Pacific Ocean.
thumb|600px|The Solomon Islands in 1989 (click to enlarge).
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Solomon Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Solomon Islands takes place within the framework of a parliamentary representative democratic, constitutional monarchy.  Solomon Islands is an independent Commonwealth realm, where  Executive power is exercised by the government.
Communications in the Solomon Islands.
Most internal transport in the Solomon Islands is conducted through boat travel between islands. Road transport infrastructure is rudimentary, with few paved roads.
(Somali) (Arabic)}}
Somalia (;  ), officially the Federal Republic of Somalia (,  ) and formerly known as the Somali Democratic Republic, is a country located in the Horn of Africa.
)
Communications in Somalia encompasses the communications services and capacity of Somalia. Telecommunications, internet, radio, print, television and postal services in the nation are largely concentrated in the private sector.
Transport in Somalia refers to the transportation networks and modes of transport in effect in Somalia. They include highways, airports and seaports, in addition to various forms of public and private vehicular, maritime and aerial transportation.
The politics of Somalia takes place in a framework of federal parliamentary representative democratic republic. According to the Constitution of Somalia, the President of Somalia is head of state, and Prime Minister as head of government who is appointed by the President with the parliament's approval.
Somali Air Force Somali Navy
Foreign relations of Somalia are handled by the President as the head of state, the Prime Minister as the head of government, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Federal Government of Somalia.
thumb|The central area of [[Pretoria, the administrative capital of South Africa.]]
$758.12 billion (2017 est.
thumb|right|Suburban communication towers in Pretoria
==Roads==
The foreign relations of South Africa have spanned from the country's time as Dominion of the British Empire to its isolationist policies under Apartheid to its position as a responsible international actor taking a key role in Africa, particularly Southern Africa.
Snooker (, ) is a cue sport which originated in Etawah, India in the latter half of the 19th century. It is played on a rectangular table covered with a green cloth, or baize, with pockets at each of the four corners and in the middle of each long side.
Portugal:France:Andorra:Morocco (Melilla):  Morocco (Ceuta):  Gibraltar: fakjsfoaeiuh
thumb|right|450px|Population density by municipality in Spain, 2008
The politics of Spain takes place under the framework established by the Constitution of 1978. Spain is established as a social and democratic state,First article.
3.2 (2016)http://economia.
}}
Transport in Spain is characterised by an extensive network of roads, railways, rapid transit, air routes, and ports. Its geographic location makes it an important link between Europe, Africa, and the New World.
After the return of democracy following the death of General Franco in 1975, Spain's foreign policy priorities were to break out of the diplomatic isolation of the Franco years and expand diplomatic relations, enter the European Community, and define security relations with NATO, later joining the organization in 1982.
The Spratly Islands (, , ) are a disputed group of islands, islets and cays and more than 100 reefs, sometimes grouped in submerged old atolls, in the South China Sea. The archipelago lies off the coasts of the Philippines, Malaysia, and southern Vietnam.
The earliest human remains found on the island of Sri Lanka date to about 35,000 years ago (Balangoda Man).
Politics of Sri Lanka takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Sri Lanka is both head of state and head of government, and of a  multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
==Telephone==
Transport in Sri Lanka is based mainly on the road network which is centred on Sri Lanka's capital, Colombo. There is also a railway network, but only handles a small fraction of the country's transport needs.
(Arabic) Jumhūriyyat al-Sūdān
The history of Sudan  includes both the territory that is today part of the Republic of the Sudan as well as a larger region known by the term &quot;Sudan&quot;. The term is derived from  bilād as-sūdān &quot;land of the black people&quot;,Encyclopædia Britannica.
thumb|Topography of Sudan and South Sudan
Sundanese}}
Officially, the politics of Sudan takes place in the framework of a presidential representative democratic consociationalist republic, where the President of Sudan is head of state, head of government and commander-in-chief of the Sudanese Armed Forces in a multi-party system. Legislative power is vested in both the government and in the two chambers, the National Assembly (lower) and the Council of States (upper), of the bicameral National Legislature.
$ 186.72 Billion (PPP) ()World Economic Outlook Database, April 2015$115.
Telecommunications in Sudan includes fixed and mobile telephones, the Internet, radio, and television.
}}
The foreign relations of Sudan are generally in line with the Muslim Arab world, but are also based on Sudan's economic ties with the People's Republic of China and Western Europe.
Some human rights organizations have documented a variety of abuses and atrocities carried out by the Sudanese government over the past several years. The 2009 Human Rights Report by the United States Department of State noted serious concerns over human rights violations by the government and militia groups.
thumb|right|300px|Topographic map of Suriname
Politics of Suriname take place in a framework of a parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the president of Suriname is the head of state and head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
$6,685 billion (PPP, 2012 est.)
Telecommunications in Suriname includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
The Republic of Suriname () has a number of forms of transport.
After the creation of the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Royal Netherlands Army was entrusted with the defence of Suriname, while the defence of the Netherlands Antilles was the responsibility of the Royal Netherlands Navy. The army set up a separate Troepenmacht in Suriname (Forces in Suriname, TRIS).
As part of the foreign relations of Suriname, the country is a participant in numerous international organizations. International tensions have arisen due to Suriname's status as a trans-shipment point for South American recreational drugs destined mostly for Europe.
right|thumb|250px|Map of Swaziland
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Swaziland, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Swaziland is an absolute monarchy with constitutional provisions and Swazi law and Custom.http://www.
Telecommunications in Swaziland includes radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Public transport is the main means of transportation in Swaziland. Car ownership is low, at 32 cars per 1,000 people.
Swaziland is a member of the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Nations, the African Union, the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa, and the Southern African Development Community. Currently, the Kingdom of Swaziland maintains 11 embassies along with 15 consulates and other representations around the world, while there are five embassies in Swaziland as well as 14 consulates and other representations.
Since 1848, the Swiss Confederation has been a federal state of relatively autonomous cantons, some of which have a history of confederacy that goes back more than 700 years, putting them among the world's oldest surviving republics.
Italy: 734.2 km (456 mi)France: 571.
}}
}}
==Telephones==
Switzerland has a dense network of roads and railways. The Swiss public transport network has a total length of 24,500 kilometers and has more than 2600 stations and stops.
FY12)Sipri: Data by Country Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Retrieved 29 March 2014
The foreign relations of Switzerland are the primary responsibility of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs (FDFA). Some international relations of Switzerland are handled by other departments of the federal administration of Switzerland.
Syria is located in Southwestern Asia, north of the Arabian Peninsula, at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bordered by Turkey to the north, Lebanon and Israel to the west and southwest, Iraq to the east, and Jordan to the south.
In 2011, the Syrian population was estimated at roughly 23 million permanent inhabitants, including people with refugee status from Palestine and Iraq and are an overall indigenous Levantine people. While most modern-day Syrians are commonly described as Arabs by virtue of their modern-day language and bonds to Arab culture and history, they are, in fact, largely a blend of the various Semitic-speaking groups indigenous to the region.
Politics in the Syrian Arab Republic takes place in the framework of a semi-presidential republic with multiparty representation. President Bashar al-Assad's family and his Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party have remained dominant forces in the country's politics since a 1970 coup.
The Syrian Ministry of Communications retains governmental authority over the internet in Syria.http://www.
}}
Syrian Arab Army Syrian Arab Air Force Syrian Arab NavySyrian Arab Air Defense Force Syrian Military IntelligenceNational Defence Forces
}}
In 1998 the US Congress amended the Rehabilitation Act to require Federal agencies to make their electronic and information technology accessible to people with disabilities. Section 508 was enacted to eliminate barriers in information technology, to make available new opportunities for people with disabilities, and to encourage development of technologies that will help achieve these goals.
Slartibartfast is a character in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, a comedy/science fiction series created by Douglas Adams. The character appears in the first and third novels, the first and third radio series (and the LP adaptation of the first radio series), the 1981 television series and the 2005 feature film.
In film and video production, split screen is the visible division of the screen, traditionally in half, but also in several simultaneous images, rupturing the illusion that the screen's frame is a seamless view of reality, similar to that of the human eye. There may or may not be an explicit borderline.
Software documentation is written text or illustration that accompanies computer software.  It either explains how it operates or how to use it, and may mean different things to people in different roles.
Sense and Sensibility is a novel by Jane Austen, published in 1811. It was published anonymously; By A Lady appears on the cover page where the author's name might have been.
Sanity (from ) refers to the soundness, rationality and healthiness of the human mind, as opposed to insanity. A person is not considered sane anymore just if he/she is irrational.
Slav, Slavic or Slavonic may refer to:
SEP|the family division|Sept}}
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
right|300px|thumb|A 2-spot game of Sprouts. The game ends when the first player is unable to draw a connecting line between the only two free points, marked in green.
Sexual intercourse, or coitus or copulation, is principally the insertion and thrusting of the penis, usually when erect, into the vagina for sexual pleasure, reproduction, or both.Sexual intercourse most commonly means penile–vaginal penetration for sexual pleasure and/or sexual reproduction; dictionary sources state that it especially means this, and scholarly sources over the years agree.
Supermarine was a British aircraft manufacturer that produced, among the others, a range of seaplanes and the Supermarine Spitfire fighter.
This is a list of notable poets who have written in the Spanish language.
thumb|right|A [[Venn diagram illustrating the intersection of two sets.]]
The Rev. Sabine Baring-Gould (28 January 1834 – 2 January 1924) of Lew Trenchard in Devon, England, was an Anglican priest, hagiographer, antiquarian, novelist, folk song collector and eclectic scholar.
thumb|upright=1.5|The salt [[copper(II) sulfate as the mineral chalcanthite]]
A solar deity (also sun god or sun goddess) is a sky deity who represents the Sun, or an aspect of it, usually by its perceived power and strength. Solar deities and sun worship can be found throughout most of recorded history in various forms.
Stendhal syndrome, Stendhal's syndrome, hyperkulturemia, or Florence syndrome is a psychosomatic disorder that causes rapid heartbeat, dizziness, fainting, confusion and even hallucinations when an individual is exposed to an experience of great personal significance, particularly viewing art. It is not listed as a recognised condition in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.
Spanish proverbs are a subset of proverbs that are used in Western cultures in general; there are many that have essentially the same form and content as their counterparts in other Western languages. Proverbs that have their origin in Spanish have migrated to and from English, French, Flemish, German and other languages.
Shareware is a type of proprietary software which is initially provided free of charge to users, who are allowed and encouraged to make and share copies of the program. Shareware is often offered as a download from a website or as a compact disc included with a magazine.
Substance theory, or substance attribute theory, is an ontological theory about objecthood, positing that a substance is distinct from its properties. A thing-in-itself is a property-bearer that must be distinguished from the properties it bears.
von Siebold is a German surname:
Superfluid helium-4 is the superfluid form of helium-4, an isotope of the element helium. A superfluid is a state of matter in which the matter behaves like a fluid with zero viscosity.
Statistical regularity is a notion in statistics and probability theory that random events exhibit regularity when repeated enough times or that enough sufficiently similar random events exhibit regularity. It is an umbrella term that covers the law of large numbers, all central limit theorems and ergodic theorems.
A statistical model is a class of mathematical model, which embodies a set of assumptions concerning the generation of some sample data, and similar data from a larger population. A statistical model represents, often in considerably idealized form, the data-generating process.
Statistical inference is the process of deducing properties of an underlying probability distribution by analysis of data.Upton, G.
In statistics, survey sampling describes the process of selecting a sample of elements from a target population to conduct a survey.
The theory of statistics provides a basis for the whole range of techniques, in both study design and data analysis, that are used within applications of statistics.Cox &amp; Hinkley (1974, p.
A unit in a statistical analysis refers to one member of a set of entities being studied.  It is the material source for the mathematical abstraction of a &quot;random variable&quot;.
In statistics, for example in statistical quality control, a statistical assembly is a collection of parts or components which makes up a statistical unit. Thus a statistical unit, which would be the prime item of concern, is made of discrete components like organs or machine parts.
The stimulus–response model is a characterization of a statistical unit (such as a neuron) as a black box model, predicting a quantitative response to a quantitative stimulus, for example one administered by a researcher.
In statistics, a population is a set of similar items or events which is of interest for some question or experiment.  A statistical population can be a group of actually existing objects (e.
In statistics and quantitative research methodology, a data sample is a set of data collected and/or selected from a statistical population by a defined procedure. The elements of a sample are known as sample points, sampling units or observations.
In descriptive statistics, summary statistics are used to summarize a set of observations, in order to communicate the largest amount of information as simply as possible. Statisticians commonly try to describe the observations in
In statistics, the range of a set of data is the difference between the largest and smallest values.
In statistics, the standard deviation (SD, also represented by the Greek letter sigma σ or the Latin letter s) is a measure that is used to quantify the amount of variation or dispersion of a set of data values. A low standard deviation indicates that the data points tend to be close to the mean (also called the expected value) of the set, while a high standard deviation indicates that the data points are spread out over a wider range of values.
Statistics, like all mathematical disciplines, does not infer valid conclusions from nothing. Inferring interesting conclusions about real statistical populations almost always requires some background assumptions.
In probability theory, two events are independent, statistically independent, or stochastically independent if the occurrence of one does not affect the probability of occurrence of the other. Similarly, two random variables are independent if the realization of one does not affect the probability distribution of the other.
In statistics, stratified sampling is a method of sampling from a population.
}}
The skeleton (from Greek σκελετός, skeletós &quot;dried up&quot;Oxford Dictionary of English 2nd edition 2005) is the body part that forms the supporting structure of an organism. There are several different skeletal types: the exoskeleton, which is the stable outer shell of an organism, the endoskeleton, which forms the support structure inside the body, the hydroskeleton, and the cytoskeleton.
thumb|250px|Example of a bottleneck slide, with [[fingerpicks and a resonator guitar made of metal.]]
thumb|right|[[Resonator guitar played lap steel fashion.]]
,)
In mathematics, especially in set theory, a set A is a subset of a set B, or equivalently B is a superset of A, if A is &quot;contained&quot; inside B, that is, all elements of A are also elements of B. A and B may coincide.
145 or 135 BC
Structural geology is the study of the three-dimensional distribution of rock units with respect to their deformational histories. The primary goal of structural geology is to use measurements of present-day rock geometries to uncover information about the history of deformation (strain) in the rocks, and ultimately, to understand the stress field that resulted in the observed strain and geometries.
A spermatozoon (pronounced , alternate spelling spermatozoön; plural spermatozoa; from  &quot;seed&quot; and  &quot;living being&quot;) is a motile sperm cell, or moving form of the haploid cell that is the male gamete. A spermatozoon joins an ovum to form a zygote.
The Sinai Peninsula or simply Sinai (;  ;  , ;  ) is a peninsula in Egypt, situated between the Mediterranean Sea to the north and the Red Sea to the south, serving as a land bridge between Asia and Africa. It is the only part of Egyptian territory located in Asia.
}}
The star height problem in formal language theory is the question whether all regular languages can be expressed using regular expressions of limited star height, i.e.
==Events==
It is frequently the day of the autumnal equinox in the Northern Hemisphere and the day of the vernal equinox in the Southern Hemisphere.
A single market is a type of trade bloc in which most trade barriers have been removed (for goods) with some common policies on product regulation, and freedom of movement of the factors of production (capital and labour) and of enterprise and services. The goal is that the movement of capital, labour, goods, and services between the members is as easy as within them.
In computing, source code is any collection of computer instructions, possibly with comments, written using a human-readable programming language, usually as ordinary text. The source code of a program is specially designed to facilitate the work of computer programmers, who specify the actions to be performed by a computer mostly by writing source code.
Space is the boundless three-dimensional extent in which objects and events have relative position and direction. Physical space is often conceived in three linear dimensions, although modern physicists usually consider it, with time, to be part of a boundless four-dimensional continuum known as spacetime.
Spanish cuisine is heavily influenced by regional cuisines and the particular historical processes that shaped culture and society in those territories. Geography and climate, had great influence on cooking methods and available ingredients, and these particularities are still present in the gastronomy of the various regions that make up the country.
within Galicia
Sailing employs the wind—acting on sails, wingsails or kites—to propel a craft on the surface of the water (sailing ship, sailboat, windsurfer, or kitesurfer), on ice (iceboat) or on land (land yacht) over a chosen course, which is often part of a larger plan of navigation. A course defined with respect to the true wind direction is called a point of sail.
Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) is an Internet standard for electronic mail (email) transmission. First defined by  in 1982, it was last updated in 2008 with Extended SMTP additions by , which is the protocol in widespread use today.
thumb|right|100px|Nylon shuttlecock
thumb|Electric soldering iron
A supernova plural: supernovae  or supernovas, abbreviations: SN and SNe) is an  astronomical event that occurs during the last stellar evolutionary stages of a massive star's life, whose dramatic and catastrophic destruction is marked by one final titanic explosion. This causes the sudden appearance of a &quot;new&quot; bright star, before slowly fading from sight over several weeks or months.
Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev (;}}}}}} ;; alternative transliterations of his name include Sergey or Serge, and Prokofief, Prokofieff, or Prokofyev.|group= n}}https://global.
In context of spaceflight, a satellite is an artificial object which has been intentionally placed into orbit. Such objects are sometimes called artificial satellites to distinguish them from natural satellites such as Earth's Moon.
}}
A spreadsheet is an interactive computer application for organization, analysis and storage of data in tabular form. Spreadsheets are developed as computerized simulations of paper accounting worksheets.
Saint Louis}}
Social Security}}
A steam engine is a heat engine that performs mechanical work using steam as its working fluid.
Satan ( satan, meaning &quot;enemy&quot; or &quot;adversary&quot;;http://jewishencyclopedia.com/articles/13219-satan &quot;Term used in the Bible with the general connotation of &quot;adversary&quot;, being applied (1) to an enemy in war (I Kings v.
Structured programming is a programming paradigm aimed at improving the clarity, quality, and development time of a computer program by making extensive use of subroutines, block structures, for and while loops—in contrast to using simple tests and jumps such as the go to statement, which could lead to &quot;spaghetti code&quot; that was difficult to follow and maintain.
thumb|right|280px|NASA's Glenn Research Center [[clean room.]]
संस्कृतम्
A sign language (also signed language) is a language which chiefly uses manual communication to convey meaning, as opposed to spoken language. This can involve simultaneously combining hand shapes, orientation and movement of the hands, arms or body, and facial expressions to express a speaker's thoughts.
In computer programming, a string is traditionally a sequence of characters, either as a literal constant or as some kind of variable. The latter may allow its elements to be mutated and the length changed, or it may be fixed (after creation).
Satanism is a group of ideological and philosophical beliefs based on the character of Satan. Contemporary religious practice of Satanism began with the founding of the Church of Satan in 1966, although a few historical precedents exist.
Socialist law or Soviet law denotes a general type of legal system which has been used in communist and formerly communist states. It is based on the civil law system, with major modifications and additions from Marxist-Leninist ideology.
A semiconductor material has an electrical conductivity value falling between that of a conductor, such as copper, and an insulator, such as glass. Their resistance decreases as their temperature increases, which is behavior opposite to that of a metal.
Sugar is the generic name for sweet, soluble carbohydrates, many of which are used in food. There are various types of sugar derived from different sources.
Saint Louis, Saint-Louis or St. Louis may refer to a number of things, the great majority named after Saint Louis IX (1214–1270), a King of France and Catholic saint, and including the American city of St.
, 2017) New England Patriots 34Atlanta Falcons 28 (OT)
right|thumb|A [[sphere of radius r has surface area 4\pi r^2]]
Solid state, or solid matter, is one of the four fundamental states of matter.  It may also refer to:
/  /
(,  or ), also known as Japanese chess or the Generals' Game, is a two-player strategy board game in the same family as  Western (international) chess, chaturanga, makruk, shatranj, janggi and xiangqi, and is the most popular of a family of chess variants native to Japan. Shōgi means general's (shō ) board game (gi ).
Solar energy is radiant light and heat from the Sun that is harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy, solar architecture, molten salt power plants and artificial photosynthesis.
Standard conditions for temperature and pressure are standard sets of conditions for experimental measurements to be established to allow comparisons to be made between different sets of data. The most used standards are those of the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), although these are not universally accepted standards.
In programming and hacking culture, a script kiddie or skiddie is an unskilled individual who uses scripts or programs developed by others to attack computer systems and networks and deface websites. It is generally assumed that script kiddies are juveniles who lack the ability to write sophisticated programs or exploits on their own and that their objective is to try to impress their friends or gain credit in computer-enthusiast communities.
.svgz
Spectroscopy  is the study of the interaction between matter and electromagnetic radiation. Historically, spectroscopy originated through the study of visible light dispersed according to its wavelength, by a prism.
The following is a list of recurring themes in science fiction.
}}
The Statute of Anne, also known as the Copyright Act 1710 (cited either as 8 Ann. c.
}}
Star Frontiers is a science fiction role-playing game produced by TSR beginning in 1982. The game offered a space opera action-adventure setting.
In sociology, anthropology and linguistics, structuralism is the methodology that elements of human culture must be understood by way of their relationship to a larger, overarching system or structure. It works to uncover the structures that underlie all the things that humans do, think, perceive, and feel.
Systems engineering is an interdisciplinary field of engineering and engineering management that focuses on how to design and manage complex systems over their life cycles. At its core systems engineering utilizes systems thinking principles to organize this body of knowledge.
==Events==
Sam &amp; Max is a media franchise focusing on the fictional characters of Sam and Max, the Freelance Police. The characters, who occupy a universe that parodies American popular culture, were created by Steve Purcell in his youth, and later debuted in a 1987 comic book series.
Standard-definition television (SDTV or SD) is a television system that uses a resolution that is not considered to be either high-definition television (720p, 1080i, 1080p, 1440p, 4K UHDTV, and 8K UHD) or enhanced-definition television (EDTV 480p). The two common SDTV signal types are 576i, with 576 interlaced lines of resolution, derived from the European-developed PAL and SECAM systems; and 480i based on the American National Television System Committee NTSC system.
thumb|[[Alcove (landform)|Alcove in the Navajo Sandstone]]
A scanning tunneling microscope (STM) is an instrument for imaging surfaces at the atomic level. Its development in 1981 earned its inventors, Gerd Binnig and Heinrich Rohrer (at IBM Zürich), the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1986.
STM may refer to:
[complete set of Svenska Akademiens ordbok, as of late 2014. Note that the majority of the volumes remain unbound in this set.
The Shirehorses are a spoof band comprising two BBC Radio DJs from Manchester, Mark Radcliffe and Marc Riley, known collectively as Mark and Lard.
Stem cells are undifferentiated biological cells that can differentiate into specialized cells and can divide (through mitosis) to produce more stem cells. They are found in multicellular organisms.
Sappho (; Aeolic Greek , Psappho ; c. 630 – c.
Simon bar Kokhba (; died 135 CE) was the Jewish leader of what is known as the Bar Kokhba revolt against the Roman Empire in 132 CE, establishing an independent Jewish state which he ruled for three years as Nasi (&quot;Prince&quot;). His state was conquered by the Romans in 135 following a two and half-year war.
Shoa may refer to:
In international arms control, small arms include revolvers and pistols, rifles and carbines, assault rifles, submachine guns, and light machine guns. Together with light weapons (heavy machine guns; hand-held grenade launchers; portable anti-aircraft and anti-tank guns; recoilless rifles; portable launchers of anti-aircraft and anti-tank missile systems; and mortars of calibres of less than 100 mm), they comprise the Small Arms and Light Weapons (SALW) protocol.
A succubus is a Lilin-demon in female form, or supernatural entity in folklore (traced back to medieval legend) that appears in dreams and takes the form of a woman in order to seduce men, usually through sexual activity. The male counterpart is the incubus.
In mathematics, a semigroup is an algebraic structure consisting of a set together with an associative binary operation.
}}
Spaced repetition is a learning technique that incorporates increasing intervals of time between subsequent review of previously learned material in order to exploit the psychological spacing effect. Alternative names include spaced rehearsal, expanding rehearsal, graduated intervals, repetition spacing, repetition scheduling, spaced retrieval and expanded retrieval.
Chemical synapses are biological junctions through which neurons' signals can be exchanged to each other and to non-neuronal cells such as those in muscles or glands. Chemical synapses allow neurons to form circuits within the central nervous system.
Multiple hypotheses explain the possible connections between sleep and learning in humans. Research indicates that sleep does more than allow the brain to rest.
Specie may refer to:
Biological systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, both past and present, and the relationships among living things through time. Relationships are visualized as evolutionary trees (synonyms: cladograms, phylogenetic trees, phylogenies).
Sine is a trigonometric function.
Sleep is a naturally recurring state of mind and body, characterized by altered consciousness, relatively inhibited sensory activity, inhibition of nearly all voluntary muscles, and reduced interactions with surroundings. It is distinguished from wakefulness by a decreased ability to react to stimuli, but is more easily reversed than the state of being comatose.
Superoxide dismutase (SOD, ) is an enzyme that alternately catalyzes the dismutation (or partitioning) of the superoxide (O2−) radical into either ordinary molecular oxygen (O2) or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). Superoxide is produced as a by-product of oxygen metabolism and, if not regulated, causes many types of cell damage.
In mathematics, a sequence is an enumerated collection of objects in which repetitions are allowed.  Like a set, it contains members (also called elements, or terms).
}}
==Events==
Sorious Samura (born 27 October 1963) is a Sierra Leonean journalist. He is best known for two CNN documentary films: Cry Freetown (2000) and Exodus from Africa (2001).
A sandpit (Commonwealth countries) or sandbox (US/Canada) is a low, wide container or shallow depression filled with soft (beach) sand in which children can play. Sharp sand (as used in the building industry) is not suitable.
Superparamagnetism is a form of magnetism which appears in small ferromagnetic or ferrimagnetic nanoparticles. In sufficiently small nanoparticles, magnetization can randomly flip direction under the influence of temperature.
Separability may refer to:
In mathematics a topological space is called separable if it contains a countable, dense subset; that is, there exists a sequence \{ x_n \}_{n=1}^{\infty}  of elements of the space such that every nonempty open subset of the space contains at least one element of the sequence.
Schrödinger's cat is a thought experiment, sometimes described as a paradox, devised by Austrian physicist Erwin Schrödinger in 1935.
right|thumb|A two-dimensional [[3D projection#Perspective projection|perspective projection of a sphere]]
Sápmi (), in English commonly known as Lapland (), is the cultural region traditionally inhabited by the Sami people, traditionally known in English as Lapps. Sápmi is located in Northern Europe and includes the northern parts of Fennoscandia.
A sword is a bladed weapon intended for slashing or thrusting that is longer than a knife or dagger. The precise definition of the term varies with the historical epoch or the geographical region under consideration.
thumb|300px|right|An [[open surface with x-, y-, and z-contours shown.]]
Stephen III may refer to:
Stephen II may refer to:
In mathematics, a function f from a set X to a set Y is surjective (or onto), or a surjection, if for every element y in the codomain Y of f there is at least one element x in the domain X of f such that f(x) = y. It is not required that x is unique; the function f may map one or more elements of X to the same element of Y.
thumb|right|The third gift — an enormous hammer (1902) by Elmer Boyd Smith. The bottom right corner depicts the ship Skíðblaðnir &quot;afloat&quot; the goddess [[Sif's new hair.
thumb|300px|&quot;[[Odin Rides to Hel&quot; (1908) by W. G.
(in French) (in Arpitan) (in Italian) (in Latin)
thumb|270px|Scylla as a maiden with a [[Cetus (mythology)|kētos tail and dog heads sprouting from her body. Detail from a red-figure bell-crater in the Louvre, 450–425 BCE.
It is frequently the day of the autumnal equinox in the Northern Hemisphere and the day of the vernal equinox in the Southern Hemisphere.
There are a number of common features in many Patience games or solitaire games as they are called in the US, such as &quot;building down&quot; and the &quot;foundations&quot; and &quot;tableau&quot;, used to simplify the description of new games.
In classical mythology, Syrinx  (Greek Σύριγξ) was a nymph and a follower of Artemis, known for her chastity. Pursued by the amorous Greek god Pan, she ran to a river's edge and asked for assistance from the river nymphs.
Sambo may refer to:
Sextus Julius Africanus (c. 160 – c.
Snooper may refer to:
Sichuan cuisine, Szechwan cuisine, or Szechuan cuisine (四川菜) ( or &quot;Szechuan.&quot; at Merriam-Webster Online.
Soul food is a variety of cuisine originating in the Southeastern United States. It is common in areas with a history of slave-based plantations and has maintained popularity among the Black American and American Deep-South &quot;cotton state&quot; communities for centuries; it is now the most common regional cuisine in southern cities such as New Orleans, Louisiana, Charlotte, North Carolina, and Atlanta, Georgia.
Spam or SPAM may refer to:
The House of Sforza () was a ruling family of Renaissance Italy, based in Milan. They acquired the Duchy of Milan from the previously-ruling Visconti family in the mid-15th century, and lost it to the Spanish Habsburgs about a century later.
The Septuagint (from the Latin , &quot;seventy&quot;) is a Koine Greek translation of a Hebraic textual tradition that included certain texts which were later included in the canonical Hebrew Bible and other related texts which were not. As the primary Greek translation of the Old Testament, it is also called the Greek Old Testament.
Scouting or the Scout Movement is a movement that aims to support young people in their physical, mental and spiritual development, that they may play constructive roles in society, with a strong focus on the outdoors and survival skills.
Sociobiology is a field of scientific study based on the hypothesis that social behavior has resulted from evolution - it attempts to examine and explain social behavior within that context. As a branch of biology that deals with social behavior, it also draws from ethology, anthropology, evolution, zoology, archaeology, population genetics, and other disciplines.
In computational complexity theory, the complexity class #P (pronounced &quot;number P&quot; or, sometimes &quot;sharp P&quot; or &quot;hash P&quot;) is the set of the counting problems associated with the decision problems in the set NP. More formally, #P is the class of function problems of the form &quot;compute ƒ(x)&quot;, where ƒ is the number of accepting paths of a nondeterministic Turing machine running in polynomial time.
#P-complete, pronounced &quot;sharp P complete&quot; or &quot;number P complete&quot; is a complexity class in computational complexity theory. By definition, a problem is #P-complete if and only if it is in #P, and every problem in #P can be reduced to it by a polynomial-time counting reduction, i.
Saint Piran or Pyran (, St Piran’s Oratory. St Piran Trust.
Sedevacantism is the position, held by a minority of traditionalist Catholics,.. that the present occupant of the Holy See is not truly pope due to the mainstream church's espousal of the heresy of modernism and that, for lack of a valid pope, the see has  been vacant since the death of Pope Pius XII in 1958.
Simple End User Linux is an advocacy group that promotes Linux programs in education and science.
Sabrina may refer to:
==Events==
Between the years AD 1900 and 2099, September 11 of the Gregorian calendar is the leap day of the Coptic and Ethiopian calendars. These leap days occur in the years immediately before those which are leap years in the  Julian and Gregorian calendars.
Spider-Man is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer-editor Stan Lee and writer-artist Steve Ditko, and first appeared in the anthology comic book Amazing Fantasy #15 (August 1962) in the Silver Age of Comic Books.
thumb|250px|[[Vädersolstavlan (&quot;The Sun dog Painting&quot;), the oldest image depicting Stockholm. The original painting, painted by Urban målare in 1535, is lost, this copy from the 1630s, painted by Jacob Elbfas, hangs in Storkyrkan.
right|thumb|[[Gamla stan|Stockholm Old Town]]
Stephen R. Lawhead, born , is a UK–based American writer known for his works of fantasy, science fiction, and historical fiction, particularly Celtic historical fiction.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Servius Tullius was the legendary sixth king of Rome, and the second of its Etruscan dynasty. He reigned 575–535 BC.
Sessions may refer to:
Session may refer to:
Sikhism (), or Sikhi meaning &quot;disciple&quot;, or  meaning. &quot;instruction&quot;.
Structural isomerism, or constitutional isomerism (per IUPAC), is a form of isomerism in which molecules with the same molecular formula have different bonding patterns and atomic organization, as opposed to stereoisomerism, in which molecular bonds are always in the same order and only spatial arrangement differs.Clark, Jim.
thumb|right|350px|The different types of [[isomers. Stereochemistry focuses on stereoisomers.
Sylvia Olive Pleadwell Sayer, Lady Sayer (6 March 1904 – 4 January 2000), was a passionate conservationist and environmental campaigner on behalf of Dartmoor, an area of mostly granite moorland in Devon in the south-west of England. She was chairman of the Dartmoor Preservation Association from 1951 to 1973, and remained deeply involved with the organisation until her death.
Skin is the soft outer tissue covering vertebrates.
Sunlight is a portion of the electromagnetic radiation given off by the Sun, in particular infrared, visible, and ultraviolet light. On Earth, sunlight is filtered through Earth's atmosphere, and is obvious as daylight when the Sun is above the horizon.
thumb|300px|Artist's depiction of the life cycle of a Sun-like star, starting as a main-sequence star at lower left then expanding through the [[subgiant and giant phases, until its outer envelope is expelled to form a planetary nebula at upper right.]]
above its mouth on the Columbia River
Surd may refer to:
In particle physics, the strong interaction is the mechanism responsible for the strong nuclear force (also called the strong force or nuclear strong force), and is one of the four known fundamental interactions, with the others being electromagnetism, the weak interaction and gravitation. At the range of 10−15 m (1 femtometer), the strong force is approximately 137 times as strong as electromagnetism, a million times as strong as the weak interaction and 1038 times as strong as gravitation.
==Events==
==Events==
Stout is a dark beer made using roasted malt or roasted barley, hops, water and yeast.  Stouts were traditionally the generic term for the strongest or stoutest porters, typically 7% or 8%, produced by a brewery.
Slavery is, in the strictest sense of the term, any system in which principles of property law are applied to people, allowing individuals to own, buy and sell other individuals, as a de jure form of property.|accessdate=May 31, 2012|year=2004|publisher=Edinburgh University Press|isbn=978-0-7486-1535-3|pages=162–}} A slave is unable to withdraw unilaterally from such an arrangement and works without remuneration.
==Events==
In commerce, supply chain management (SCM), the management of the flow of goods and services,For SCM related to services, see for example the Association of Employment and Learning Providers' Supply Chain Management Guide at http://www.aelp.
Synchronized swimming is a hybrid form of swimming, dance, and gymnastics, consisting of swimmers (either solos, duets, trios, combos, or teams) performing a synchronised routine of elaborate moves in the water, accompanied by music.
Human swimming is the self-propulsion of a person through water or another liquid, usually for recreation, sport, exercise, or [ Locomotion] is achieved through coordinated movement of the limbs, the body, or both.  Humans can hold their breath underwater and undertake rudimentary locomotive swimming within weeks of birth, as an evolutionary response.
A  simple machine is a  mechanical device that changes the direction or magnitude of a force.  In general, they can be defined as the simplest mechanisms that use mechanical advantage (also called leverage) to multiply force.
(cited by Schaffel p. 202/311, which has &quot;Smith sent...
In group theory, a branch of mathematics, given a group G under a binary operation ∗, a subset H of G is called a subgroup of G if H also forms a group under the operation ∗. More precisely, H is a subgroup of G if the restriction of ∗ to  is a group operation on H.
Series (singular) may refer to anything of a [form:
Mountain View, California, U.S.
[plane.svg|250px|right|thumbnail|The Fano plane] is an S(2,3,7) Steiner triple system.
Simon the Sorcerer or Simon the Magician, in Latin Simon Magus (Greek Σίμων ὁ μάγος), is a religious figure whose confrontation with Peter is recorded in . Accounts of Simon by writers of the second century exist, but are not considered verifiable.
==Events==
==Events==
A school is an institution designed to provide learning spaces and learning environments for the teaching of students (or &quot;pupils&quot;) under the direction of teachers. Most countries have systems of formal education, which is commonly compulsory.
The Sontarans are a fictional extraterrestrial agendered race of humanoids from the British science fiction television series Doctor Who, and also seen in spin-off series The Sarah Jane Adventures. A warrior race who live to kill, they are characterised by their ruthlessness and fearlessness of death.
Skateboarding is an action sport which involves riding and performing tricks using a skateboard. Skateboarding can also be considered a recreational activity, an art form, a job, or a method of transportation.
Speed skating is a competitive form of ice skating in which the competitors race each other in travelling a certain distance on skates. Types of speed skating are long track speed skating, short track speed skating, and marathon speed skating.
==Events==
A square is a regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four right angles.
A scanning electron microscope (SEM) is a type of electron microscope that produces images of a sample by scanning the surface with a focused beam of electrons. The electrons interact with atoms in the sample, producing various signals that contain information about the sample's surface topography and composition.
The September 11 attacks timeline is a chronological list of all the major events leading up to, during, and immediately following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington that day. The timeline starts with the completion of the first World Trade Center tower in 1970 through the first anniversary of the attacks in 2002.
The hijackers in the September 11 attacks were 19 men affiliated with al-Qaeda. Fifteen of the 19 were citizens of Saudi Arabia, and the others were from the United Arab Emirates (2), Egypt, and Lebanon.
Many closings and cancellations followed the September 11 attacks, including major landmarks, buildings, restrictions on access to Lower Manhattan, and postponement or cancellation of major sporting and other events.  Landmarks were closed primarily because of fears that they may be attacked.
The first memorials to the victims of the September 11 attacks in 2001 began to take shape online, as hundreds of webmasters posted their own thoughts, links to the Red Cross and other rescue agencies, photos, and eyewitness accounts. Numerous online September 11 memorials began appearing a few hours after the attacks, although many of these memorials were only temporary.
After the September 11 attacks, questions were raised regarding the effectiveness of airport security at the time, as all 19 hijackers involved in 9/11 managed to pass existing checkpoints and board the airplanes without incident. In the months and years following September 11, 2001, security at many airports worldwide was escalated to deter similar terrorist plots.
}}
Charities and relief agencies raised over $657 million in the three weeks following the September 11, 2001 attacks, the vast bulk going to immediate survivors and victims' families.
The local, state, federal and global reaction to the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center was unprecedented. The equally unsurpassed events of that day elicited the largest response of local emergency and rescue personnel to assist in the evacuation of the two towers and also contributed to the largest loss of the same personnel when the towers collapsed.
Communication problems and successes played an important role in the September 11, 2001 attacks and their aftermath. Systems were variously destroyed or overwhelmed by loads greater than they were designed to carry, or failed to operate as intended or desired.
This article summarizes the events in October 2001 that were related to the September 11 attacks. All times, except where otherwise noted, are in Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), or UTC−04:00.
}}
SAC or Sac may refer to:
A sniper is a marksman who operates alone, in a pair, or with a sniper team, to maintain close visual contact with the enemy and shoot them from concealed positions or distances exceeding their detection capabilities. They generally have specialized training and use high-precision rifles and optics, and often feed information back to their units or military bases.
A sign is an object, quality, event, or entity whose presence or occurrence indicates the probable presence or occurrence of something else.New Oxford American Dictionary A natural sign bears a causal relation to its object—for instance, thunder is a sign of storm, or medical symptoms signify a disease.
The Standard Alphabet is a Latin-script alphabet developed by Karl Richard Lepsius. Lepsius initially used it to transcribe Egyptian hieroglyphsLepsius 1849 and extended it to write African languages, published in 1854Lepsius 1854 and 1855,Lepsius 1855 and in a revised edition in 1863.
200px|right|thumb|The Sidehill Gouger: a &quot;left-sided&quot; mother looks forlornly at her &quot;right-sided&quot; pup.
Strike may refer to:
,
,
right|300px|thumb|A map of the Superclusters and [[void (astronomy)|voids nearest to Earth]]
Seaborgium is a chemical element with symbol Sg and atomic number 106. It is named after the American nuclear chemist Glenn T.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
,genitive
In terms of a political entity, a state is any politically organized community living under a single system of government. States may or may not be sovereign.
Stevia (,  or ) is a sweetener and sugar substitute extracted from the leaves of the plant species Stevia rebaudiana.
The search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) is a collective term for scientific searches for intelligent extraterrestrial life, for example, monitoring electromagnetic radiation for signs of transmissions from civilizations on other planets.
,genitive
thumb|right|Map of Japanese provinces (1868) with Satsuma Province highlighted
Scottish usually refers to something of, from, or related to Scotland, including:
This is a list of the brightest naked eye stars to +2.50 magnitude, as determined by their maximum, total or combined apparent visual magnitudes as seen from Earth.
This list contains all known stars and brown dwarfs at a distance of up to 5 parsecs (16.3 light-years) from the Solar System.
Sagítta,genitive
Simon Ockley (16789 August 1720) was a British Orientalist.
Sharable Content Object Reference Model (SCORM) is a collection of standards and specifications for web-based electronic educational technology (also called e-learning). It defines communications between client side content and a host system (called &quot;the run-time environment&quot;), which is commonly supported by a learning management system.
A stock exchange is an exchange (or bourse)|group=&quot;note&quot;}} where stock brokers and traders can buy and sell shares of stock, bonds, and other securities. Stock exchanges may also provide facilities for issue and redemption of securities and other financial instruments and capital events including the payment of income and dividends.
Son of God (film)|other uses|Son of God (disambiguation)}}
Sa, SA or S.A.
675
Data storage is the recording (storing) of information (data). Recording is accomplished by virtually any form of energy.
Simony  is the act of selling church offices and roles. It is named after Simon Magus,The Reader's Encyclopedia (1965), New York: Thomas Y.
==Events==
The Strait of Gibraltar (, ) is a narrow strait that connects the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea and separates Gibraltar and Peninsular Spain in Europe from Morocco  and Ceuta (Spain) in Africa. The name comes from the Rock of Gibraltar, which in turn originates from the Arabic Jebel Tariq (meaning &quot;Tariq's mountain&quot;) named after Tariq ibn Ziyad.
Social Epistemology refers to a broad set of approaches that can be taken in the study of knowledge that construes human knowledge as a collective achievement. Another way of characterizing social epistemology is as the evaluation of the social dimensions of knowledge or information.
A sound card (also known as an audio card) is an internal expansion card that provides input and output of audio signals to and from a computer under control of computer programs. The term sound card is also applied to external audio interfaces used for professional audio applications.
In group theory, the symmetry group of an object (image, signal, etc.) is the group of all transformations under which the object is invariant with composition as the group operation.
Singular they is the use in English of the pronoun they or its inflected or derivative forms, them, their, theirs, and themselves (or themself), as an epicene (gender-neutral) singular pronoun. It typically occurs with an antecedent of indeterminate gender, as in sentences such as:
Snow refers to forms of ice crystals that precipitate from the atmosphere (usually from clouds) and undergo changes on the Earth's surface.
http://smbx.org/symbolics-bancruptcy-filed/
Surfing is a surface water sport in which the wave rider, referred to as a surfer, rides on the forward or deep face of a moving wave, which is usually carrying the surfer towards the shore. Waves suitable for surfing are primarily found in the ocean, but can also be found in lakes or in rivers in the form of a standing wave or tidal bore.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
}}
Randy Barnes 23.12 m (1990)
Stanley Bootle, known as Stan Kelly-Bootle (15 September 1929  – 16 April 2014), was a British author, academic, singer-songwriter and computer scientist.
thumb|200px|Example distribution with non-zero (positive) skewness. These data are from experiments on wheat grass growth.
Saint Columba may refer to:
Spontaneous emission is the process in which a quantum mechanical system (such as an atom, molecule or subatomic particle) transitions from an excited energy state to a lower energy state (e.g.
Suleiman I may refer to:
Smith may refer to:
Show business, sometimes shortened to show biz or showbiz (since  1945), is a vernacular term for all aspects of the entertainment industry.Oxford English Dictionary 2nd Ed.
Speaker for the Dead is a 1986 science fiction novel by Orson Scott Card and an indirect sequel to the novel Ender's Game.  The book takes place around the year 5270, some 3,000 years after the events in Ender's Game.
A star catalogue (Commonwealth English) or star catalog (American English), is an astronomical catalogue that lists stars. In astronomy, many stars are referred to simply by catalogue numbers.
Designations of stars (and other celestial bodies) and their naming is currently primarily mediated in the scientific community by the International Astronomical Union (IAU), a de facto authority. The IAU states that it is keen to make a distinction between the terms name and designation.
(Star Trek starship)
– September 5, 1984
The Sports Car Club of America (SCCA) is an American automobile club and sanctioning body supporting road racing, rallying, and autocross in the United States.  Formed in 1944, it runs many programs for both amateur and professional racers.
Starnet}}
SQL Server may refer to:
Sufism or Taṣawwuf (), which is often defined as &quot;Islamic mysticism&quot;,Martin Lings, What is Sufism? (Lahore: Suhail Academy, 2005; first imp.
}}
}}
Software package may refer to:
Safe semantics is a consistency model that describes one type of guarantee a data register provides when it is shared by several processors in a parallel machine or in a network of computers working together.
Seneca may refer to:
A sonnet is a poem in a specific form which originated in Italy; Giacomo da Lentini is credited with its invention.
Sambo}}
Snowboards are boards that are usually the width of one's foot longways, with the ability to glide on snow.&quot;snowboarding.
In poetry, a stanza (; from Italian stanza , &quot;room&quot;) is a grouped set of lines within a poem, usually set off from other stanzas by a blank line or indentation.The Bedford Glossary of Critical and Literary Terms.
– August 13, 1898()
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a lack of vitamin C. Early symptoms include weakness, feeling tired, and sore arms and legs.
In its original sense, a shaggy dog story or yarn is an extremely long-winded anecdote characterized by extensive narration of typically irrelevant incidents and terminated by an anticlimax or a pointless punchline.
is the Japanese preparation and serving of specially prepared  combined with varied  such as chiefly seafood (often uncooked), vegetables, and occasionally tropical fruits. Styles of sushi and its presentation vary widely, but the key ingredient is the sushi rice, also referred to as , or .
, or kami-no-michi, is the ethnic religion of Japan that focuses on ritual practices to be carried out diligently, to establish a connection between present-day Japan and its ancient past.John Nelson.
Shell may refer to:
The Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of Freemasonry (the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction in the United States often omits the and, while the English Constitution in the United Kingdom omits the Scottish), commonly known as simply the Scottish Rite (or, in England, as the Rose Croix Supreme Council 33° - Introduction although this is only one of its degrees), is one of several Rites of Freemasonry. A Rite is a progressive series of degrees conferred by various Masonic organizations or bodies, each of which operates under the control of its own central authority.
The Sandman is a figure in folklore who brings good sleep and dreams.
In electrical engineering, a switch is an electrical component that can &quot;make&quot; or &quot;break&quot; an electrical circuit, interrupting the current or diverting it from one conductor to another.
Sutra (pronunciation key: suːθrə (soo-th-rə)) (IAST: sūtra , pages 54–55 Each sutra is any short rule, like a theorem distilled into few words or syllables, around which teachings of ritual, philosophy, grammar, or any field of knowledge can be woven. The oldest sutras of Hinduism are found in the Brahmana and Aranyaka layers of the Vedas.
}} or . According to translator William Scott Wilson: &quot;In Chinese, the character 侍 was originally a verb meaning &quot;to wait upon&quot;, &quot;accompany persons&quot; in the upper ranks of society, and this is also true of the original term in Japanese, [2|saburau].
Sequencer may refer to:
Stalingrad is the former name of Volgograd, a city in Russia.
A short story is a piece of prose fiction that can be read in one sitting. Emerging from earlier oral storytelling traditions in the 17th century, the short story has grown to encompass a body of work so diverse as to defy easy characterization.
In many religious, philosophical and mythological traditions, the soul is the incorporeal essence of a living being.&quot;soul.
The sphere has radius r, and in this case the area A of the highlighted surface patch is r. The solid angle Ω equals [] sr}} which is  in this example.
In physics, string theory is a theoretical framework in which the point-like particles of particle physics are replaced by one-dimensional objects called strings. It describes how these strings propagate through space and interact with each other.
}}
}}
}}
(development began in 1969)
Survivor may refer to:
Samhain (pronounced   or  , ) is a Gaelic festival marking the end of the harvest season and the beginning of winter or the &quot;darker half&quot; of the year. Traditionally, it is celebrated from 31 October to 1 November, as the Celtic day began and ended at sunset.
Sigismund (variants: Sigmund, Siegmund) is a German proper name, meaning &quot;protection through victory&quot;, from Old High German sigu &quot;victory&quot; + munt &quot;hand, protection&quot;. Tacitus Latinises it Segimundus.
1050 – 1012 BCE
Samaria (;LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «sa-mĕr´ē-a» , Standard , Tiberian Šōmərôn; ,  – also known as , ) is a name for the mountainous, central region of the ancient Eastern Mediterranean, based on the borders of the biblical Northern Kingdom of Israel, and especially the Israelite tribes of Ephraim and Manasseh.
Sennacherib (Akkadian: Sîn-ahhī-erība, &quot;Sîn has replaced the brothers&quot;; ; As seen in , , , and  pronounced in Modern Hebrew  or in some Mizrahi dialects ) was the king of Assyria from 705 BCE to 681 BCE. He is principally remembered for his military campaigns against Babylon and Judah, and for his building programs – most notably at the Akkadian capital of Nineveh.
Single-shot firearms are firearms that hold only a single round of ammunition, and must be reloaded after each shot. The history of firearms began with single-shot designs, and many centuries passed before multi-shot repeater designs became commonplace.
Simon the Sorcerer is a point-and-click adventure game developed and published by Adventure Soft in 1993 for Amiga and MS-DOS formats. The first instalment in the Simon the Sorcerer series, the game follows a boy named Simon, who is transported to a parallel universe to embark on a mission to rescue a wizard called Calypso from an evil sorcerer named Sordid.
A sling is a projectile weapon typically used to throw a blunt projectile such as a stone, clay, or lead &quot;sling-bullet&quot;. It is also known as the shepherd's sling.
Stock car racing is a form of automobile racing found mainly and most prominently in the United States and Canada, with Australia, New Zealand and Brazilhttp://www.stockcar.
In the sociology of religion, secondary conversion is the religious conversion of an individual that results from a relationship with another convert, rather than from any particular aspect of the new religion. For example, someone might join a religious group primarily because their spouse or partner has done so; such a person would be a secondary convert.
Sociology of religion is the study of the beliefs, practices and organizational forms of religion using the tools and methods of the discipline of sociology. This objective investigation may include the use of both quantitative methods (surveys, polls, demographic and census analysis) and qualitative approaches such as participant observation, interviewing, and analysis of archival, historical and documentary materials.
Samuel (;LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «săm´yū-ĕl» ; Arabic:  Ṣamuil;  Samouēl; ), is a leader of ancient Israel in the Books of Samuel in the Hebrew Bible.
https://web.archive.
In mathematics, a symplectic manifold is a smooth manifold, M, equipped with a closed nondegenerate differential 2-form, ω, called the symplectic form. The study of symplectic manifolds is called symplectic geometry or symplectic topology.
Freight transport is the physical process of transporting commodities and merchandise goods and cargo. The term shipping originally referred to transport by sea, but is extended in American English to refer to transport by land or air (International English: &quot;carriage&quot;) as well.
Spam (stylized SPAM) is a brand of canned cooked meat made by Hormel Foods Corporation. It was first introduced in 1937 and gained popularity worldwide after its use during World War II.
thumb|An email box folder littered with spam messages
A siddur ( ; plural siddurim סדורים, ) is a Jewish prayer book, containing a set order of daily prayers. The word siddur comes from the Hebrew root  meaning &quot;order&quot;.
Sigismund I may refer to:
/
A splay tree is a self-adjusting binary search tree with the additional property that recently accessed elements are quick to access again.  It performs basic operations such as insertion, look-up and removal in O(log n) amortized time.
Traditionally, spirituality refers to a religious process of re-formation which &quot;aims to recover the original shape of man,&quot; oriented at &quot;the image of God&quot; as exemplified by the founders and sacred texts of the religions of the world. In modern times the emphasis is on subjective experience of a sacred dimension and the &quot;deepest values and meanings by which people live,&quot; often in a context separate from organized religious institutions.
This is a list of characters appearing in The Sandman comic book, published by DC Comics' Vertigo imprint. This page discusses not only events which occur in The Sandman (1989–94), but also some occurring in spinoffs of The Sandman (such as The Dreaming [1996–2001] and Lucifer [1999–2007]) and in earlier stories that The Sandman was based on.
Simon Templar is a fictional character known as The Saint. He is featured in a long-running series of books by Leslie Charteris published between 1928 and 1963.
), stammering (
Province of Syria
Basemap shows modern national borders.
The Scopes Trial, formally known as The State of Tennessee v. John Thomas Scopes and commonly referred to as the Scopes Monkey Trial, was an  American legal case in July 1925 in which a substitute high school teacher, John T.
}}
The Stolen Generations (also known as Stolen Children) were the children of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander descent who were removed from their families by the Australian Federal and State government agencies and church missions, under acts of their respective parliaments. The removals of those referred to as &quot;half-caste&quot; children were conducted in the period between approximately 1905Marten, J.
A slingshot or catapult ([|UK]), ging (primarily Australian and New Zealand), shanghai (Australian),Gulel (India), kettie (South Africa), bean shooter, or flip or tirador (primarily Tagalog), is normally a small hand-powered projectile weapon. The classic form consists of a Y-shaped frame held in the off hand (nondominant hand), with two  natural-rubber strips attached to the uprights.
Subaru is a Japanese automobile brand of Subaru Corporation. It may also refer to:
thumb|200px|PBX switchboard, 1975
Space exploration is the ongoing discovery and exploration of celestial structures in outer space by means of continuously evolving and growing space technology. While the study of space is carried out mainly by astronomers with telescopes, the physical exploration of space is conducted both by unmanned robotic space probes and human spaceflight.
Space science encompasses all of the scientific disciplines that involve space exploration and study natural phenomena and physical bodies occurring in outer space, such as space medicine and astrobiology.
A saint, also historically known as a hallow, is a person who is recognized as having an exceptional degree of holiness or likeness or closeness to God. Depending on the context and denomination, the term also retains its original Christian meaning, as any believer who is &quot;in Christ&quot; and in whom Christ dwells, whether in Heaven or on Earth.
In mechanics and physics, simple harmonic motion is a type of periodic motion or oscillation motion where the restoring force is directly proportional to the displacement and acts in the direction opposite to that of displacement .
In Wicca and Paganism/Neo-paganism, the term skyclad is used to refer to ritual nudity. Some Wiccan groups, or Traditions, perform some or all of their rituals skyclad.
In computer science,  a sorting algorithm is an algorithm that puts elements of a list in a certain order. The most-used orders are numerical order and lexicographical order.
,
South African English (SAfrE, SAfrEng, SAE, en-ZAen-ZA is the language code for South African English, as defined by ISO standards (see ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 alpha-2) and Internet standards (see IETF language tag).) is the set of English dialects spoken by native South Africans.
Speech processing is the study of speech signals and the processing methods of these signals. The signals are usually processed in a digital representation, so speech processing can be regarded as a special case of digital signal processing, applied to speech signal.
to 15 million.
Swahili may refer to:
A summary offence is a crime in some common law jurisdictions that can be proceeded against summarily, without the right to a jury trial and/or indictment (required for an indictable offence).
The Sudbury Neutrino Observatory (SNO) was a neutrino observatory located 2100 m underground in Vale's Creighton Mine in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. The detector was designed to detect solar neutrinos through their interactions with a large tank of heavy water.
Super K}}
Stimulated emission is the process by which an incoming photon of a specific frequency can interact with an excited atomic electron (or other excited molecular state), causing it to drop to a lower energy level. The liberated energy transfers to the electromagnetic field, creating a new photon with a phase, frequency, polarization, and direction of travel that are all identical to the photons of the incident wave.
A signal is a means to convey information.
Skiing can be a means of transport, a recreational activity or a competitive winter sport in which the participant uses skis to glide on snow. Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), and the International Ski Federation (FIS).
Statistical mechanics is a branch of theoretical physics that uses probability theory to study the average behaviour of a mechanical system, where the state of the system is uncertain.The term statistical mechanics is sometimes used to refer to only statistical thermodynamics.
The Solstice occurs twice each year (around June 21 and December 22) as the Sun reaches its most northerly or southerly excursion relative to the celestial equator on the celestial sphere. The seasons of the year are directly connected to both the solstices and the equinoxes.
The Suebi (or Suevi, Suavi (Jordanes, Procopius), or Suevians) was a large group of related Germanic peoples who lived in Germania in the time of the Roman Empire. They were first mentioned by Julius Caesar in connection with his battles against Ariovistus in Gaul, around 58 BC.
==Events==
A ski is a narrow strip of semi-rigid material worn underfoot to glide over snow.  Substantially longer than wide and characteristically employed in pairs, skis are attached to ski boots with ski bindings, with either a free, lockable, or partially secured heel.
Swedish cuisine is the traditional food of the people of Sweden. Due to Sweden's large North–South expanse, there are regional differences between the cuisine of North and South Sweden.
A submachine gun (SMG) is a magazine-fed, automatic carbine designed to fire pistol cartridges. The term &quot;submachine gun&quot; was coined by John T.
Shooting is the act or process of discharging firearms or other projectile weapons such as bows or crossbows. Even the firing of artillery, darts, grenades, rockets, and missiles can be called shooting.
thumb|right|[[Hattie Johnson with an air rifle]]
( ), also spelled saké, (  or  ) also referred to as a Japanese rice wine, is made by fermenting rice that has been polished to remove the bran. Unlike wine, in which alcohol (ethanol) is produced by fermenting sugar that is naturally present in fruit, typically grapes, sake is produced by a brewing process more akin to that of beer, where starch is converted into sugars which ferment into alcohol.
Subtractive synthesis is a method of sound synthesis in which partials of an audio signal (often one rich in harmonics) are attenuated by a filter to alter the timbre of the sound. While subtractive synthesis can be applied to any source audio signal, the sound most commonly associated with the technique is that of analog synthesizers of the 1960s and 1970s, in which the harmonics of simple waveforms such as sawtooth, pulse or square waves are attenuated with a voltage-controlled resonant low-pass filter.
Spacecraft propulsion is any method used to accelerate spacecraft and artificial satellites. There are many different methods.
In mathematical logic, a second-order predicate is a predicate that takes a first-order predicate as an argument.. Compare higher-order predicate.
Beer in Sweden has a history that can be traced to the late Iron Age.
The Communist Party of Peru (), more commonly known as the Shining Path (), is a communist militant group in Peru. When it first launched the internal conflict in Peru in 1980, its stated goal was to replace the bourgeois democracy with &quot;New Democracy&quot;.
In molecular biology, splicing is the editing of the nascent precursor messenger RNA (pre-mRNA) transcript into a mature messenger RNA (mRNA). After splicing, introns are removed and exons are joined together (ligated).
right|thumb|An illustration from [[Fredrik Sander's 1893 Swedish edition of the Poetic Edda]]
Suprême sauce is one of the classic &quot;small sauces&quot; of French cuisine, that is, one made by combining a basic or mother sauce with extra ingredients.
Zuppa alla modenese (&quot;soup in the style of Modena&quot;) is an Italian soup made with stock, spinach, butter, salt, eggs, Parmesan cheese, nutmeg and croutons.
Soup all'Imperatrice (Italian: Zuppa all'Imperatrice) is a soup made from breast of fowl, eggs, ground rice, clear stock, salt, pepper and nutmeg.The Cooks 200 Genuine Italian Recipes - Paul Cresswell.
Soup alla Canavese is an Italian soup made from white stock, tomato puree, butter, carrot, celery, onion, cauliflower, bacon fat, Parmesan cheese, parsley, sage, salt and pepper.
The solar wind is a stream of charged particles released from the upper atmosphere of the Sun. This plasma consists of mostly electrons, protons and alpha particles with thermal energies between 1.
A spoonerism is an error in speech or deliberate play on words in which corresponding consonants, vowels, or morphemes are switched (see metathesis) between two words in a phrase.The definition of Spoonerism in the 1924 edition of the Oxford English Dictionary is: An accidental transposition of the initial sounds, or other parts, of two or more words.
==Events==
thumb|The [[Ouroboros, a dragon that continually consumes itself, is used as a symbol for self-reference.]]
The Sokal affair, also called the Sokal hoax,Derrida (1997) was a scholarly publishing hoax perpetrated by Alan Sokal, a physics professor at New York University and University College London. In 1996, Sokal submitted an article to Social Text, an academic journal of postmodern cultural studies.
thumb|180px|A glass of sweet tea from the Southeastern region of the U.S.
The cuisine of the Southern United States is the historical regional states starting from Virginia to Texas.
thumb|Greek [[icon of Second Coming, c.1700]]
In computer science, in the context of data storage, serialization is the process of translating data structures or object state into a format that can be stored (for example, in a file or memory buffer) or transmitted (for example, across a network connection link) and reconstructed later (possibly in a different computer environment). When the resulting series of bits is reread according to the serialization format, it can be used to create a semantically identical clone of the original object.
Balance of power}}
)
,  in , fountain at ,  façade and the statue of  at , New Palace, and Old Castle at
Self-propelled artillery (also called mobile artillery or locomotive artillery) is artillery equipped with its own propulsion system to move towards its target. Within the term are covered self-propelled guns (or howitzers) and rocket artillery.
&quot;Sinatra Doctrine&quot; was the name that the Soviet government of Mikhail Gorbachev used jokingly to describe its policy of allowing neighboring Warsaw Pact states to determine their own internal affairs. The name alluded to the song &quot;My Way&quot; popularized by Frank Sinatra—the Soviet Union was allowing these states to go their own way.
thumb|300px|Generation of SMILES: Break cycles, then write as branches off a main backbone. (Ciprofloxacin)
In Finnish mythology, the Sampo or Sammas was a magical artifact of indeterminate type constructed by Ilmarinen that brought riches and good fortune to its holder.  When the Sampo was stolen, it is said that Ilmarinen's homeland fell upon hard times and he sent an expedition to retrieve it, but in the ensuing battle it was smashed and lost at sea.
A sysop (; an abbreviation of system operator) is an administrator of a multi-user computer system, such as a bulletin board system (BBS) or an online service virtual community.Jansen, E.
; English : Pamela Weidner (OVA)Sherry Lynn (Movie, Mini Goddess)Annice Moriarty (TV)
Steve Jackson may refer to:
The Song of Songs (Hebrew: , Šīr HašŠīrīm ; Greek: , Âisma Aismátōn), also known as the Song of Solomon,. Canticles, or the Canticle of Canticles, is one of the &quot;scrolls&quot; (megillot) of the Writings (Ketuvim), the last section of the Tanakh or Hebrew Bible.
The Star Chamber (Latin: Camera stellata) was an English court of law which sat at the royal Palace of Westminster, from the late 15th century to the mid-17th century (c. 1641), and was composed of Privy Councillors and common-law judges, to supplement the judicial activities of the common-law and equity courts in civil and criminal matters.
&quot;Diverse People Unite&quot; in |Xam
Shoah may refer to:
2CR}}
Specialisation, (or specialization) is an important way to generate propositional knowledge, by applying general knowledge, such as the theory of gravity, to specific instances, such as &quot;when I release this apple, it will fall to the floor&quot;. Specialisation is the opposite of generalisation.
Sinusitis, also known as a sinus infection or rhinosinusitis, is inflammation of the sinuses resulting in symptoms. Common signs and symptoms include thick nasal mucus, a plugged nose, and pain in the face.
The  (, older form aes sídhe ) is the Irish term for a supernatural race in Irish mythology and Scottish mythology (usually spelled Sìth, however pronounced the same), comparable to the fairies or elves. They are said to live underground in fairy mounds, across the western sea, or in an invisible world that coexists with the world of humans.
Star clusters or star clouds are groups of stars. Two types of star clusters can be distinguished: globular clusters are tight groups of hundreds or thousands of very old stars which are gravitationally bound, while open clusters, more loosely clustered groups of stars, generally contain fewer than a few hundred members, and are often very young.
Scarlatti is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
}}
right|thumb|200px|A photograph of the three Soong sisters together.
The Second Epistle of Peter, often referred to as Second Peter and  written 2 Peter or in Roman numerals II Peter (especially in older references), is a book of the New Testament of the Bible, traditionally held to have been written by Saint Peter. Most modern scholars regard it as pseudepigraphical.
}}
In genetics and biochemistry, sequencing means to determine the primary structure (sometimes falsely called primary sequence) of an unbranched biopolymer.  Sequencing results in a symbolic linear depiction known as a sequence which succinctly summarizes much of the atomic-level structure of the sequenced molecule.
In genetics, shotgun sequencing is a method used for sequencing long DNA strands. It is named by analogy with the rapidly expanding, quasi-random firing pattern of a shotgun.
}}
The Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or their Transboundary Fluxes by at least 30 per cent is a 1985 protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution agreement that provided for a 30 per cent reduction in sulphur emissions or transboundary fluxes by 1993. The protocol has been supplemented by the 1994 Oslo Protocol on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions.
Stalinism is the means of governing and related policies implemented by Joseph Stalin. Stalinist policies in the Soviet Union included rapid industrialization, the theory of socialism in one country, a centralized state, collectivization of agriculture, cult of personality,Jan Plamper, The Stalin Cult: A Study in the Alchemy of Power (2012).
or (&quot;Booths, Tabernacles&quot;)
According to the USGS, the term &quot;supervolcano&quot; implies a volcanic center that has had an eruption of magnitude 8 on the Volcano Explosivity Index (VEI), meaning the measured deposits for that eruption is greater than 1,000 cubic kilometers (240 cubic miles).https://volcanoes.
The Single European Sky is a European Commission initiative by which the design, management and regulation of airspace will be coordinated throughout the European Union (ECAA area).
Sputtering is a process whereby particles are ejected from a solid target material due to bombardment of the target by energetic particles, particularly, in the laboratory, gas ions. It only happens when the kinetic energy of the incoming particles is much higher than conventional thermal energies (≫ 1 eV).
Scroll lock (⤓ or ⇳) is a lock key (typically with an associated status light) on most IBM-compatible computer keyboards.
Synthetic polymers are human-made polymers. From the utility point of view they can be classified into four main categories: thermoplastics, thermosets, elastomers and synthetic fibers.
In the genetic code, a stop codon (or termination codon) is a nucleotide triplet within messenger RNA that signals a termination of translation into proteins. Proteins are based on polypeptides, which are unique sequences of amino acids.
SJK could refer to:
The United Federated Forces of the Symbionese Liberation Army (SLA) was an American left-wing revolutionary organization active between 1973 and 1975 that considered itself a vanguard army. The group committed bank robberies, two murders, and other acts of violence.
Secondary sex characteristics are features that appear during puberty in humans, and at sexual maturity in other animals. These are particularly evident in the sexually dimorphic phenotypic traits that distinguish the sexes of a species, but unlike the sex organs, are not directly part of the reproductive system.
Smuggling is the illegal transportation of objects, substances, information or people, such as out of a house or buildings, into a prison, or across an international border, in violation of applicable laws or other regulations.
This list of smuggling in fiction includes works of fiction (in both prose and poetry) where smuggling is a prominent theme. Smuggling is a common trope or theme in literature and can be found in a wide range of works – from the 18th century novels of Charlotte Turner Smith to Prosper Mérimée's 19th century novella, Carmen (the inspiration for numerous films as well as Bizet's opera, Carmen)Perriam, Christopher and Davies, Ann, Carmen: from silent film to MTV, Rodopi, 2005, pp.
In computer science, string searching algorithms, sometimes called string matching algorithms, are an important class of string algorithms that try to find a place where one or several strings (also called patterns) are found within a larger string or text.
Stoichiometry   is the calculation of relative quantities of reactants and products in chemical reactions.
The following outline is provided as an overview and topical guide to statistics:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the discipline of sociology:
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to sculpture:
Second law may refer to:
Singularity or singular point may refer to:
Defamation — also calumny, vilification, and traducement — is the communication of a false statement that harms the reputation of an individual person, business, product, group, government, religion, or nation.
Sweetbread is a culinary name for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork.Oxford Companion to Food; Oxford English Dictionary The &quot;heart&quot; sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the &quot;throat&quot; sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.
A sweetener is a substance, most commonly a sugar substitute (artificial sweetener), added to food to give it the basic taste of sweetness.
{{Infobox saint
Streaming media is multimedia that is constantly received by and presented to an end-user while being delivered by a provider. The verb &quot;to stream&quot; refers to the process of delivering or obtaining media in this manner; the term refers to the delivery method of the medium, rather than the medium itself, and is an alternative to file downloading, a process in which the end-user obtains the entire file for the content before watching or listening to it.
The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) is a communications protocol for signaling and controlling multimedia communication sessions in applications of Internet telephony for voice and video calls, in private IP telephone systems, as well as in instant messaging over Internet Protocol (IP) networks.
Squatting is the action of occupying an abandoned or unoccupied area of land or a building, usually residential, that the squatter does not own, rent or otherwise have lawful permission to use.
Protein secondary structure is the three dimensional form of local segments of proteins. The two most common secondary structural elements are alpha helices and beta sheets, though beta turns and omega loops occur as well.
Sabermetrics is the empirical analysis of baseball, especially baseball statistics that measure in-game activity.
Space Quest is a series of six comic science fiction computer adventure games released between 1986 and 1995. The games follow the adventures of a hapless janitor named Roger Wilco as he campaigns through the galaxy for &quot;truth, justice and really clean floors&quot;.
A mercy rule,  slaughter rule, knockout rule, or skunk rule ends a two-competitor sports contest earlier than the scheduled endpoint if one competitor has a very large and presumably insurmountable lead over the other. It is called the mercy rule because it spares further humiliation for the loser.
The Session Description Protocol (SDP) is a format for describing streaming media communications parameters.  The IETF published the original specification as an IETF Proposed Standard in April 1998, and subsequently published a revised specification as an IETF Proposed Standard as RFC 4566 in July 2006.
Session Announcement Protocol (SAP) is an experimental protocol for broadcasting multicast session information. SAP was published by the IETF as RFC 2974.
}}
SECAM, also written SÉCAM (,  Séquentiel couleur à mémoire,IEC60050 International Eletrotechnical Vocabulary, the form avec mémoire isdueirjfhfnt, but incorrect. French for &quot;Sequential colour with memory&quot;), is an analogue color television system first used in France.
*
Smelts are a family of small fish, the Osmeridae, found in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. They are also known as freshwater smelts or typical smelts to distinguish them from the related Argentinidae, Bathylagidae, and Retropinnidae.
thumb|Modern stethoscope
Smelting is a form of extractive metallurgy; its main use is to produce a base metal from its ore. This includes production of silver, iron, copper and other base metals from their ores.
Shirley Ann Dean (née Bryant, born 1935-36), considered moderate in Berkeley politics,Shirley Dean to Seek Another Term as Mayor (sources Dean as moderate) is an American politician who served as the Mayor of Berkeley, California (1994-2002).  Before serving two terms as Berkeley's Mayor, Dean served on the Berkeley City Council for 15 years (1975–94) and was a leader of the Berkeley Democratic Club.
Sonet may refer to:
Superconducting Magnetic Energy Storage: Status and Perspective. Tixador, P.
thumb|Making a [[saline water solution by dissolving table salt (NaCl) in water. The salt is the solute and the water the solvent.
Security engineering is a specialized field of engineering that focuses on the security aspects in the design of systems that need to be able to deal robustly with possible sources of disruption, ranging from natural disasters to malicious acts. It is similar to other systems engineering activities in that its primary motivation is to support the delivery of engineering solutions that satisfy pre-defined functional and user requirements, but with the added dimension of preventing misuse and malicious behavior.
Spaghetti code is a pejorative phrase for source code that has a complex and tangled control structure, especially one using many GOTO statements, exceptions, threads,  or other &quot;unstructured&quot; branching constructs. It is named such because program flow is conceptually like a bowl of spaghetti, i.
Steganography (, ) is the practice of concealing a file, message, image, or video within another file, message, image, or video. The word steganography combines the Greek words steganos (), meaning &quot;covered, concealed, or protected,&quot; and graphein () meaning &quot;writing&quot;.
Semaphore usually refers to flag semaphore.  It may also refer to;
Synchronization is the coordination of events to operate a system in unison. The familiar conductor of an orchestra serves to keep the orchestra in time.
In geology, a supercontinent is the assembly of most or all of Earth's continental blocks or cratons to form a single large landmass.Rogers, John J.
The slide rule, also known colloquially in the United States as a slipstick, is a mechanical analog computer. The slide rule is used primarily for multiplication and division, and also for functions such as exponents, roots, logarithms and trigonometry, but typically not for addition or subtraction.
In Greek mythology, Styx (;  ) is a deity and a river that forms the boundary between Earth and the Underworld (the domain often called Hades, which also is the name of its ruler). The rivers Styx, Phlegethon, Acheron, Lethe, and Cocytus all converge at the center of the underworld on a great marsh, which sometimes is also called the Styx.
Sangha (; ; }}; ) is a word in Pali and Sanskrit meaning &quot;association&quot;, &quot;assembly&quot;, &quot;company&quot; or &quot;community&quot; and most commonly refers in Buddhism to the monastic community of bhikkhus (monks) and bhikkhunis (nuns). These communities are traditionally referred to as the bhikkhu-sangha or bhikkhuni-sangha.
In everyday use and in kinematics, the speed of an object is the magnitude of its velocity (the rate of change of its position); it is thus a scalar quantity. This is the likely origin of the speed/velocity terminology in vector physics.
Sutta may refer to:
Superluminal communication is a hypothetical process in which information is sent at faster-than-light (FTL) speeds.   The current scientific consensus is that faster-than-light communication is not possible, and to date it has not been achieved in any experiment.
thumb|right|400px|The different types of [[isomers. Stereochemistry focuses on stereoisomers]]
Simultaneity is the relation between two events assumed to be happening at the same time in a frame of reference. According to Einstein's theory of relativity, simultaneity is not an absolute relation between events; what is simultaneous in one frame of reference will not necessarily be simultaneous in another.
In physics, spacetime is any mathematical model that fuses the three dimensions of space and the one dimension of time into a single 4‑dimensional continuum. Spacetime diagrams are useful in visualizing and understanding relativistic effects such as how different observers perceive where and when events occur.
}}
Sofonisba Anguissola ( – 16 November 1625), also known as Sophonisba Angussola or Anguisciola, was an Italian Renaissance painter born in Cremona to a relatively poor noble family.  She received a well-rounded education, that included the fine arts, and her apprenticeship with local painters set a precedent for women to be accepted as students of art.
is a tile-matching puzzle originally released under the name Chain Shot! in 1985 by Kuniaki Moribe (Morisuke).
Sather is an object-oriented programming language. It originated circa 1990 at the International Computer Science Institute (ICSI) at the University of California, Berkeley, developed by an international team led by Steve Omohundro.
Surrealism is a cultural movement that began in the early 1920s, and is best known for its visual artworks and writings. Artists painted unnerving, illogical scenes with photographic precision, created strange creatures from everyday objects and developed painting techniques that allowed the unconscious to express itself.
Statics is the branch of mechanics that is concerned with the analysis of loads (force and torque, or &quot;moment&quot;) acting on physical systems that do not experience an acceleration (a=0), but rather, are in static equilibrium with their environment. When in static equilibrium, the acceleration of the system is zero and the system is either at rest, or its center of mass moves at constant velocity.
The Southern Cross (or Crux) is a constellation visible mainly in the Southern Hemisphere.
Maritime transport is watercraft carrying people (passengers) or goods (cargo). Freight transport has been achieved widely by sea throughout recorded history.
__NOTOC__
Small beer (also, small ale) is a beer or ale that contains very little alcohol, typically about 0.75%.
Sambia (, literally the Sambiysky Peninsula) or SamlandSamland was also the codename for the USA by the wartime intelligence agency Abwehr (Operation Mincement by Ben MacIntyre) (, literally the Zemlandsky Peninsula) or Kaliningrad Peninsula (official name, ) is a peninsula in the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia, on the southeastern shore of the Baltic Sea. The peninsula is bounded by the Curonian Lagoon (to the north-east), the Vistula Lagoon (on the southwest), the Pregel River (on the south), and the Deyma River (on the east).
Sovereignty is the full right and power of a governing body over itself, without any interference from outside sources or bodies. In political theory, sovereignty is a substantive term designating supreme authority over some polity.
SNAFU is an acronym that stands for the sarcastic expression &quot;situation normal: all fucked up&quot;. It is sometimes bowdlerized to &quot;all fouled up&quot; or similar.
}}
SLD may refer to:
In computing, a segmentation fault (often shortened to segfault) or access violation is a fault, or failure condition, raised by hardware with memory protection, notifying an operating system (OS) the software has attempted to access a restricted area of memory (a memory access violation). On standard x86 computers (which includes most personal computers) this is a form of general protection fault.
Source separation problems in digital signal processing are those in which several signals have been mixed together into a combined signal and the objective is to recover the original component signals from the combined signal. The classical example of a source separation problem is the cocktail party problem, where a number of people are talking simultaneously in a room (for example, at a cocktail party), and a listener is trying to follow one of the discussions.
Shabbat (;  , &quot;rest&quot; or &quot;cessation&quot;) or Shabbos (, ) or the Sabbath is Judaism's day of rest and seventh day of the week, on which religious Jews and certain Christians (such as Seventh Day Adventists and Seventh Day Baptists) remember the Biblical creation of the heavens and the earth in six days and the Exodus of the Hebrews, and look forward to a future Messianic Age. Shabbat observance entails refraining from work activities, often with great rigor, and engaging in restful activities to honor the day.
Static program analysis is the analysis of computer software that is performed without actually executing programs (analysis performed on executing programs is known as dynamic analysis). In most cases the analysis is performed on some version of the source code, and in the other cases, some form of the object code.
Secure Shell (SSH) is a cryptographic network protocol for operating network services securely over an unsecured network.
&quot;Generalissimo Francisco Franco is still dead&quot; is a catchphrase that originated in 1975 during the first season of NBC's Saturday Night (now called Saturday Night Live, or SNL) and which mocked the weeks-long media reports of the Spanish dictator's impending death. It was one of the first catchphrases from the series to enter the general lexicon.
A sex worker is a person who is employed in the sex industry.Oxford English Dictionary, &quot;sex worker&quot;Oxford English Dictionary, &quot;sex industry&quot;.
A submarine (or simply sub) is a watercraft capable of independent operation underwater. It differs from a submersible, which has more limited underwater capability.
The Second Epistle to the Thessalonians, often referred to  as Second Thessalonians (US) or Two Thessalonians (UK) (and written 2 Thessalonians) is a book from the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is traditionally attributed to Paul the Apostle, as it begins, &quot;Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians&quot; and ends, &quot;I, Paul, write this greeting in my own hand, which is the distinguishing mark in all my letters.
}}
A sestina (Old Occitan: cledisat ; also known as sestine, sextine, sextain) is a fixed verse form consisting of six stanzas of six lines each, normally followed by a three-line envoi. The words that end each line of the first stanza are used as line endings in each of the following stanzas, rotated in a set pattern.
A song, most broadly, is a single (and often standalone) work of music that is typically intended to be sung by the human voice with distinct and fixed pitches and patterns using sound and silence and a variety of forms that often include the repetition of sections. Written words created specifically for music or for which music is specifically created, are called lyrics.
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight (Middle English: Sir Gawayn and þe Grene Knyȝt) is a late 14th-century Middle English chivalric romance. It is one of the best known Arthurian stories, with its plot combining two types of folklore motifs, the beheading game and the exchange of winnings.
A siege tower or breaching tower (or in the Middle Ages, a belfryCastle: Stephen Biesty'sSections. Dorling Kindersley Pub (T); 1st American edition (September 1994).
Sharia, Sharia law, or Islamic law (}} ()) is the religious law forming part of the Islamic tradition. It is derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and the Hadith.
Sunna}}
Safe sex is sexual activity engaged in by people who have taken precautions to protect themselves against sexually transmitted infections (STIs) such as HIV.Compact Oxford English Dictionary, Oxford University Press, 2009, Accessed 23 September 2009 It is also referred to as safer sex or protected sex, while unsafe or unprotected sex is sexual activity engaged in without precautions, especially forgoing condom use.
STD may refer to:
The sap beetles are a family (Nitidulidae) of beetles.
Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum. The signs and symptoms of syphilis vary depending in which of the four stages it presents (primary, secondary, latent, and tertiary).
Signal transduction is the process by which a chemical or physical signal is transmitted through a cell as a series of molecular events, most commonly protein phosphorylation catalysed by protein kinases, which ultimately results in a cellular response. Proteins responsible for detecting stimuli are generally termed receptors, although in some cases the term sensor is used.
In mathematical analysis, the Weierstrass approximation theorem states that every continuous function defined on a closed interval  can be uniformly approximated as closely as desired by a polynomial function. Because polynomials are among the simplest functions, and because computers can directly evaluate polynomials, this theorem has both practical and theoretical relevance, especially in polynomial interpolation.
A simile () is a figure of speech that directly compares two things. Although similes and metaphors are similar, similes explicitly use connecting words (such as like, as, so, than, or various verbs such as resemble), though these specific words are not always necessary.
The Serengeti () ecosystem is a geographical region in Africa. It is located mainly in northern Tanzania and extends into south-western Kenya between 1 and 3 degrees south (latitudes) and between 34 and 36 degrees east (longitudes).
thumb|right|&quot;Loki and Sigyn&quot; (1863) by [[Mårten Eskil Winge.]]
The Saudi–Iraqi neutral zone was an area of 7,044 km² on the border between Saudi Arabia and Iraq within which the border between the two countries had not been settled. The neutral zone came into existence following the Uqair Protocol of 1922 which defined the border between Iraq and the Sultanate of Nejd (Saudi Arabia's predecessor state).
30 lat po Sierpniu'80: &quot;Solidarność zakładnikiem własnej historii&quot; Retrieved on 7 June 2011 (680,000 in 2010) Duda za Śniadka? by Maciej Sandecki and Marek Wąs, Gazeta Wyborcza of 24 August 2010
The Software Engineering Body of Knowledge (SWEBOK) is an international standard ISO/IEC TR 19759:2005 specifying a guide to the generally accepted Software Engineering Body of Knowledge.
SOE may refer to:
Scotch-Irish or Scots-Irish may refer to:
&quot;Sinners in the Hands of an  Angry God&quot; is a sermon written by British Colonial Christian theologian Jonathan Edwards, preached to his own congregation in Northampton, Massachusetts to unknown effect, and again on July 8, 1741 in Enfield, Connecticut.;  Like Edwards' other works, it combines vivid imagery of Hell with observations of the world and citations of the scripture.
Scotch whisky, often simply called Scotch, is malt whisky or grain whisky made in Scotland. Scotch whisky must be made in a manner specified by law.
Special Drawing Rights (ISO 4217 currency code XDR,
United Kingdom
thumb|A 104-key [[Personal computer|PC US English keyboard layout with System request circled|400x400px]]
In the English language, a split infinitive or cleft infinitive is a grammatical construction in which a word or phrase comes between the to and the bare infinitive of the to form of the infinitive verb. Usually an adverb or adverbial phrase comes between them.
thumb|320px|A [[Cayley graph of the symmetric group [group S4|S4]]]
SMS can stand for Short Message Service, a form of text-messaging communication based on phones and mobile phones.
Short Message Peer-to-Peer (SMPP) in the telecommunications industry is an open, industry standard protocol designed to provide a flexible data communication interface for the transfer of short message data between External Short Messaging Entities (ESMEs), Routing Entities (REs) and Message Centres.Short Message Peer-to-Peer Protocol Specification v5.
To strike from the record is for a judge to forbid a decision maker (such as a juror) to consider a particular piece of testimony or other evidence when deciding the case even though he or she has already learned what that evidence or testimony concerned. The commonly heard request is &quot;move to strike&quot;, with the intent to erase previous testimony or court proceeding from record.
upright=1.35|thumb|[[Tract housing in Colorado Springs, Colorado-Cul-de-sacs are hallmarks of suburban planning.
}}
Srebrenica (, ) is a town in the easternmost Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Srebrenica is a small mountain town, its main industry being salt mining and a nearby spa.
thumb|230px|[[Willem Blaeu|Blaeu's 1654 Atlas of Scotland - The Small Isles. Rum is at centre, surrounded by &quot;Kannay', 'Egg' and 'Muck'.
A storytelling game is a game where two or more persons collaborate on telling a spontaneous story. Usually, each player takes care of one or more characters in the developing story.
Early Silurian – present
200px|right|thumb|Logo of Shriners International
Science fiction fandom or SF fandom (or Sci-Fi fandom) is a community or fandom of people interested in science fiction in contact with one another based upon that interest. SF fandom has a life of its own, but not much in the way of formal organization (although clubs such as the Futurians [1937–1945] is a recognized example of organized fandom).
Spin or spinning may refer to:
In astronomy, stellar classification is the classification of stars based on their spectral characteristics. Electromagnetic radiation from the star is analyzed by splitting it with a prism or diffraction grating into a spectrum exhibiting the rainbow of colors interspersed with absorption lines.
Sinope may refer to:
Seven Sisters may refer to:
Seismology (; from Ancient Greek σεισμός (seismós) meaning &quot;earthquake&quot; and -λογία (-logía) meaning &quot;study of&quot;) is the scientific study of earthquakes and the propagation of elastic waves through the Earth or through other planet-like bodies.  The field also includes studies of earthquake environmental effects such as tsunamis as well as diverse seismic sources such as volcanic, tectonic, oceanic, atmospheric, and artificial processes such as explosions.
thumb|Chemical structure of methyl cyanoacrylate
}}
A subtitle can refer to:
Solder (,  or in North America Oxford American Dictionary) is a fusible metal alloy used to create a permanent bond between metal workpieces. The word solder comes from the Middle English word soudur, via Old French solduree and soulder, from the Latin solidare, meaning &quot;to make solid&quot;.
thumb|right|[[Minamoto no Yoritomo, the first shogun (1192–1199) of the Kamakura shogunate]]
Short-term memory  (or &quot;primary&quot; or &quot;active memory&quot;) is the capacity for holding, but not manipulating, a small amount of information in mind in an active, readily available state for a short period of time. The duration of short-term memory (when rehearsal or active maintenance is prevented) is believed to be in the order of seconds.
In the United States, a state supreme court (known by other names in some states) is the ultimate judicial tribunal in the court system of a particular state (i.e.
Stability may refer to:
Spyware is software that aims to gather information about a person or organization without their knowledge,  that may send such information to another entity without the consumer's consent, or that asserts control over a device without the consumer's knowledge.FTC Report  (2005).
William Jones}}
Yoshinobu NishizakiEiichi YamamotoKeisuke FujikawaMaru Tamura
A Southern blot is a method used in molecular biology for detection of a specific DNA sequence in DNA samples. Southern blotting combines  transfer of electrophoresis-separated DNA fragments to a filter membrane and subsequent fragment detection by probe hybridization.
The standard gauge (also Stephenson gauge named after George Stephenson, International gauge, or normal gauge) is a widely used railway track gauge.  Approximately 55% of the lines in the world use this gauge.
Saraswati River can refer to:
The Simpson Desert is a large area of dry, red sandy plain and dunes in Northern Territory, South Australia and Queensland in central Australia. It is the fourth largest Australian desert, with an area of 176,500 km2 (68,100 sq mi) and is the world's largest sand dune desert.
Skycar may refer to:
The SECD machine is a highly influential (See: #Landin's contribution) virtual machine and abstract machine intended as a target for functional programming language compilers.  The letters stand for Stack, Environment, Control, Dump, the internal registers of the machine.
Stratego  is a strategy board game for two players on a board of 10×10 squares. Each player controls 40 pieces representing individual officer ranks in an army.
A salute is a gesture or other action used to display respect. Salutes are primarily associated with armed forces, but other organizations and civilians also use salutes.
in Berkeley, California, USA
modified with updated info from Pu et al 2016. An earlier and longer possible snowball phase, the Huronian glaciation, is not shown.
Saint Ninian is a Christian saint first mentioned in the 8th century as being an early missionary among the Pictish peoples of what is now Scotland. For this reason he is known as the Apostle to the Southern Picts, and there are numerous dedications to him in those parts of Scotland with a Pictish heritage, throughout the Scottish Lowlands, and in parts of Northern England with a Northumbrian heritage.
Speciation is the evolutionary process by which biological populations evolve to become distinct species. The biologist Orator F.
The Strait of Hormuz (  Tange-ye Hormoz  is a strait between the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. It provides the only sea passage from the Persian Gulf to the open ocean and is one of the world's most strategically important choke points.
A space telescope or space observatory is an instrument located in outer space to observe distant planets, galaxies and other astronomical objects. Space telescopes avoid many of the problems of ground-based observatories, such as light pollution and distortion of electromagnetic radiation (scintillation).
500|birth_place     = Caerfai, Pembrokeshire, Wales|death_date      = 1 March 589|death_place     = St David's, Pembrokeshire, Wales|feast_day       = 1 March|beatified_date  =|beatified_place =|beatified_by    =|major_shrine    = St David's Cathedral, Pembrokeshire, Walesshrine largely extant,controversial bones in casket|attributes      = Bishop with a dove,usually on his shoulder, sometimes standingon a raised hillock|patronage       = Wales; Pembrokeshire; Naas; vegetarians; poets|issues          = The earliest of the supposed bones of Saint David and Saint Justinian housed in a casket in the Holy Trinity Chapel of St David's Cathedral have been carbon-dated to the 12th century.|suppressed_date =|Schooled_at     = Llantwit Major|venerated_in    = Roman Catholic ChurchEastern Orthodox ChurchAnglican Communion|canonised_date  = 1123|canonised_place = Rome, Italy (officially recognised)|canonised_by    = Pope Calixtus II|prayer          =|prayer_attrib   =}}
Sarah Lawrence may refer to;
The philosophy or life stance of secular humanism embraces human reason, ethics, social justice, and philosophical naturalism while specifically rejecting religious dogma, supernaturalism, pseudoscience, and superstition as the bases of morality and decision making.
}}
attached to a Model 2 Genesis
The  Sega VR is a virtual reality headset that was under development by Sega. Versions were planned for arcades and consoles (Sega Genesis and then Saturn), but only the arcade version was released, while the home console versions were cancelled.
The SRC Homology 3 Domain  (or SH3 domain)  is a small protein domain of about 60 amino acid residues. Initially, SH3 was described as a conserved sequence in the viral adaptor protein v-Crk. This domain is also present in the molecules of phospholipase and several cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases such as Abl and Src. It has also been identified in several other protein families such as: PI3 Kinase, Ras GTPase-activating protein, CDC24 and cdc25. SH3 domains are found in proteins of signaling pathways regulating the cytoskeleton, the Ras protein, and the Src kinase and many others. The SH3 proteins interact with adaptor proteins and tyrosine kinases. Interacting with tyrosine kinases SH3 proteins usually bind far away from the active site. Approximately 300 SH3 domains are found in proteins encoded in the human genome. In addition to that, the SH3 domain was responsible for controlling protein-protein interactions in the signal transduction pathways and regulating the interactions of proteins involved in the cyto
In vector calculus, and more generally differential geometry, Stokes' theorem (also called the generalized Stokes theorem or the Stokes–Cartan theorem Michel Moisan  Springer|language=en}}) is a statement about the integration of differential forms on manifolds, which both simplifies and generalizes several theorems from vector calculus.  Stokes' theorem says that the integral of a differential form  over the boundary of some orientable manifold  is equal to the integral of its exterior derivative  over the whole of , i.
Superfetation (also spelled superfoetation – see fetus) is the simultaneous occurrence of more than one stage of developing offspring in the same animal. In mammals, it manifests as the formation of an embryo from a different estrous cycle while another embryo or fetus is already present in the uterus.
}}
Speciesism () involves the assignment of different values, rights, or special consideration to individuals solely on the basis of their species membership. The term is sometimes used by animal rights advocates, who argue that speciesism is a prejudice similar to racism or sexism, in that the treatment of individuals is predicated on group membership and morally irrelevant physical differences.
The Steelman language requirements were a set of requirements which a high-level general-purpose programming language should meet, created by the United States Department of Defense in The Department of Defense Common High Order Language program in 1978. The predecessors of this document were called, in order, &quot;Strawman&quot;, &quot;Woodenman&quot;, &quot;Tinman&quot; and &quot;Ironman&quot;.
In radio communications, single-sideband modulation (SSB) or single-sideband suppressed-carrier modulation (SSB-SC) is a type of modulation, used to transmit information, an audio signal, by radio waves.  It is a refinement of amplitude modulation which uses transmitter power and bandwidth more efficiently.
SSB may refer to:
The szlachta (, exonym: Nobility) was a legally privileged noble class in the Kingdom of Poland, Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Ruthenia, Samogitia (both after Union of Lublin became a single state, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth) and the Zaporozhian Host.3.
In computer science, syntactic sugar  is syntax within a programming language that is designed to make things easier to read or to express. It makes the language &quot;sweeter&quot; for human use: things can be expressed more clearly, more concisely, or in an alternative style that some may prefer.
Jason Griffith (2005–2010)Roger Craig Smith (2010–present)
Supreme Soviet of Russia
A slave is a person owned or entrapped by another.
In Greek mythology, a satyr (, ;  satyros,Of uncertain etymology; R. S.
The Sturgeon class (known colloquially in naval circles as the 637 class) was a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines (SSN) in service with the United States Navy from the 1960s until 2004. They were the &quot;workhorses&quot; of the Navy's attack submarine fleet throughout much of the Cold War.
The Seawolf class is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines (SSN) in service with the United States Navy. The class was the intended successor to the .
}}
The statute of frauds refers to the requirement that certain kinds of contracts be memorialized in a writing, signed by the party to be charged, with sufficient content to evidence the contract.
Sovereign immunity, or crown immunity, is a legal doctrine by which the sovereign or state cannot commit a legal wrong and is immune from civil suit or criminal prosecution.  It is a principle of international law which exempts a sovereign state from the jurisdiction of foreign national courts.
Social geography is the branch of human geography that is most closely related to social theory in general and sociology in particular, dealing with the relation of social phenomena and its spatial components. Though the term itself has a tradition of more than 100 years,Dunbar, Gary S.
}}
In security engineering, security through obscurity (or security by obscurity) is the reliance on the secrecy of the design or implementation as the main method of providing security for a system or component of a system. A system or component relying on obscurity may have theoretical or actual security vulnerabilities, but its owners or designers believe that if the flaws are not known, that will be sufficient to prevent a successful attack.
A snuff film, or snuff movie, is &quot;a movie in a purported genre of movies in which a person is actually murdered or commits suicide&quot;.American Heritage Dictionary, s.
Software testing is an investigation conducted to provide stakeholders with information about the quality of the software product or service under test. Software testing can also provide an objective, independent view of the software to allow the business to appreciate and understand the risks of software implementation.
The Ship/Submarine Recycling Program (SRP) is the process that the United States Navy uses to dispose of decommissioned nuclear vessels.  SRP takes place only at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard (PSNS) in Bremerton, Washington, but the preparations can begin elsewhere.
Sycorax is a character mentioned though not seen in William Shakespeare's play The Tempest.
A signature block (often abbreviated as signature, sig block, sig file, .sig, dot sig, siggy, or just sig) is a block of text automatically appended at the bottom of an email message, Usenet article, or forum post.
Semantics (from The word is derived from the Ancient Greek] word  (semantikos), &quot;related to meaning, significant&quot;, from  semaino, &quot;to signify, to indicate&quot;, which is from  sema, &quot;sign, mark, token&quot;. The plural is used in analogy with words similar to physics, which was in the neuter plural in Ancient Greek and meant &quot;things relating to nature&quot;.
A semantic network, or frame network,  is a network that represents semantic relations between concepts. This is often used as a form of knowledge representation.
The Stockholm Bloodbath (Swedish: Stockholms blodbad, Danish: Det Stockholmske Blodbad) took place on the invasion of Sweden by Danish forces under the command of King Christian II. The bloodbath was a series of events taking place between 7 and 9 November 1520, climaxing on 8 November, when around 80–90 people (mostly nobility and clergy supporting the Sture party) were executed, despite a promise by King Christian for general amnesty.
SSL can refer to:
Signals intelligence (SIGINT) is intelligence-gathering by interception of signals, whether communications between people (communications intelligence—abbreviated to COMINT) or from electronic signals not directly used in communication (electronic intelligence—abbreviated to ELINT). Signals intelligence is a subset of intelligence collection management.
The Semantic Web is an extension of the Web through standards by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The standards promote common data formats and exchange protocols on the Web, most fundamentally the Resource Description Framework (RDF).
K-219 was a Project 667A Navaga-class ballistic missile submarine (NATO reporting name &quot;Yankee I&quot;) of the Soviet Navy. She carried 16 (later 15) SS-N-6 liquid-fuel missiles powered by UDMH with IRFNA, equipped with an estimated 34 nuclear warheads.
K-8 was a  of the Soviet Northern Fleet that sank in the Bay of Biscay with its nuclear weapons on board on April 12, 1970. A fire on April 8 had disabled the submarine and it was being towed in rough seas.
K-19 was one of the first two Soviet submarines of the 658 class (NATO reporting name ), the first generation nuclear submarine equipped with nuclear ballistic missiles, specifically the R-13 SLBM. The boat was hurriedly built by the Soviets, who were anxious to catch up with the United States' lead in nuclear submarines.
thumb|right|250px|Seleucus I Nicator
and
thumb|right|The [[Whippet: characteristic long legs, deep chest, and narrow waist of a sighthound]]
The Sloughi  is a North African breed of dog, specifically a member of the sighthound family. It is found mainly in Morocco, which is responsible for the standard, and may be found in smaller numbers elsewhere in North Africa.
http://www.petpaw.
Stephen Bachiler (buried October 31, 1656) was an English clergyman who was an early proponent of the separation of church and state in America.
Soap is a surfactant cleaning compound used for personal or other cleaning.
The Declaration of Sentiments, also known as the Declaration of Rights and Sentiments,Library of Congress. The Learning Page.
A social class (or, simply, class), as in class society, is a set of subjectively defined concepts in the social sciences and political theory centered on models of social stratification in which people are grouped into a set of hierarchical social categories, the most common being the upper, middle, and lower classes.
Spaghetti Western, also known as Italian Western or Macaroni Western (primarily in Japan), is a broad subgenre of Western films that emerged in the mid-1960s in the wake of Sergio Leone's film-making style and international box-office success.  The term was used by American critics and other countries because most of these Westerns were produced and directed by Italians.
}}
In mathematics, a spherical coordinate system is a coordinate system for three-dimensional space where the position of a point is specified by three numbers: the radial distance of that point from a fixed origin, its polar angle measured from a fixed zenith direction, and the azimuth angle of its orthogonal projection on a reference plane that passes through the origin and is orthogonal to the zenith, measured from a fixed reference direction on that plane. It can be seen as the three-dimensional version of the polar coordinate system.
Sleipnir is  an eight-legged horse in Norse mythology. Sleipnir or Sleipner may also refer to:
The Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) was a proposed missile defense system intended to protect the United States from attack by ballistic strategic nuclear weapons (intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine-launched ballistic missiles). The system, which was to combine ground-based units and orbital deployment platforms, was first publicly announced by President Ronald Reagan on 23 March 1983.
SDI may refer to:
Solomon Northup (July 10, 1807 or 1808 – )African American Autobiographers: A Sourcebook (2002) Emmanuel Sampath Nelson, Greenwood Publishing Group, p290  was an American abolitionist and the primary author of the memoir Twelve Years a Slave.  A free-born African American from New York, he was the son of a freed slave and a free woman of color.
A space elevator is a proposed type of space transportation system.  The main component would be a cable (also called a tether) anchored to the surface and extending into space.
Spawn is a fictional character, an antihero that appears in a monthly comic book of the same name published by Image Comics. Created by Todd McFarlane, the character first appeared in Spawn #1 (May 1992).
SDL may refer to:
}}
}}
The Summer of Love was a social phenomenon that occurred during the summer of 1967, when as many as 100,000 people, mostly young people sporting hippie fashions of dress and behavior, converged in San Francisco's neighborhood Haight-Ashbury.  Although hippies also gathered in many other places in the U.
Skyhook}}
In mathematics, a square root of a number a is a number y such that ; in other words, a number y whose square (the result of multiplying the number by itself, or ) is a.Gel'fand, p.
Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse (Ger. orth.
thumb|right|300px|Artist's depiction of Saint Paul Writing His Epistles, 16th century (Blaffer Foundation Collection, Houston, Texas).  Paul was the first major figure in Christian history to hold that [[Jewish law is no longer valid.
}}
SOAP (originally Simple Object Access Protocol) is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information in the implementation of web services in computer networks. Its purpose is to induce extensibility, neutrality and independence.
The Stone Age was a broad prehistoric period during which stone was widely used to make implements with an edge, a point, or a percussion surface. The period lasted roughly 3.
A Single-Document Interface (SDI) is a type of GUI. Any program not capable of displaying more than one document per window is considered to use an SDI interface.
A slot machine (American English), informally fruit machine (British English), puggy (Scottish English slang), the slots (Canadian and American English), poker machine (or pokies in slang) (Australian English and New Zealand English) or simply slot (American English), is a casino gambling machine with three or more reels which spin when a button is pushed. Slot machines are also known as one-armed bandits because they were originally operated by one lever on the side of the machine as distinct from a button on the front panel, and because of their ability to leave the player in debt and  impoverished.
A spear is a pole weapon consisting of a shaft, usually of wood, with a pointed head. The head may be simply the sharpened end of the shaft itself, as is the case with fire hardened spears, or it may be made of a more durable material fastened to the shaft, such as flint, obsidian, iron, steel or bronze.
Systems theory or systems science is the interdisciplinary study of systems. A system is an entity with interrelated and interdependent parts; it is defined by its boundaries and it is more than the sum of its parts (subsystem).
The following are lists of stars. These are astronomical objects that spend some portion of their existence generating energy through thermonuclear fusion.
Space colonization (also called space settlement, or extraterrestrial colonization) is permanent human habitation off the planet Earth.
The Second Council of Nicaea is recognized as the last of the first seven ecumenical councils by the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church. In addition, it is also recognized as such by the Old Catholics and others.
Sexual orientation is an enduring pattern of romantic or sexual attraction (or a combination of these) to persons of the opposite sex or gender, the same sex or gender, or to both sexes or more than one gender. These attractions are generally subsumed under heterosexuality, homosexuality, and bisexuality, while asexuality (the lack of sexual attraction to others) is sometimes identified as the fourth category.
thumb|Illustration of spandrel
SimpleText is the native text editor for the Apple classic Mac OS. SimpleText allows editing including text formatting (underline, italic, bold, etc.
Statute of Westminster}}
The relationship between religion and science has been a subject of study since classical antiquity, addressed by philosophers, theologians, scientists, and others. Perspectives from different geographical regions, cultures and historical epochs are diverse, with some characterizing the relationship as one of conflict, others describing it as one of harmony, and others proposing little interaction.
The right of people to self-determination is a cardinal principle in modern international law (commonly regarded as a jus cogens rule), binding, as such, on the United Nations as authoritative interpretation of the Charter’s norms.See: [Nations General Assembly Resolution 1514|United Nations General Assembly Resolution 1514] in Wikisource states It states that a people, based on respect for the principle of equal rights and fair equality of opportunity, have the right to freely choose their sovereignty and international political status with no interference.
Scale or scales may refer to:
thumb|right|350px|Map of Southcentral Alaska
In geometry and physics, spinors are elements of a (complex) vector space that can be associated with Euclidean space.Spinors can always be defined over the complex numbers.
Safety engineering is an engineering discipline which assures that engineered systems provide acceptable levels of safety. It is strongly related to industrial engineering/systems engineering,  and the subset system safety engineering.
United States and&lt;BR&gt; Canada
Semtex is a general-purpose plastic explosive containing RDX and PETN.Explosives - Compositions, Semtex It is used in commercial blasting, demolition, and in certain military applications.
Schedl is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Fascism (until 1942)Sasson Sofer. Zionism and the Foundations of Israeli Diplomacy.
}}
Samuel Huntington may refer to:
Script may refer to:
thumb|right|300px|Grating spectrometer schematic
A spouse is a life partner in a holy matrimony, marriage, civil union,  domestic partnership or common-law marriage. The term is gender neutral, whereas a male spouse is a husband and a female spouse is a wife.
Human sexuality is the capacity to have erotic experiences and responses.
Semiotics (from , &quot;simiotikos&quot;) (also called semiotic studies; not to be confused with the Saussurean tradition called semiology which is a subset of semiotics) is the study of meaning-making, the study of sign processes and meaningful communication.&quot;The science of communication studied through the interpretation of signs and symbols as they operate in various fields, esp.
A short take-off and vertical landing aircraft (STOVL aircraft) is a fixed-wing aircraft that is able to take off from a short runway (or take off vertically if it does not have a heavy payload) and land vertically (i.e.
{|
The Subaru Forester is a compact crossover SUV manufactured since 1997 by Subaru. Available in Japan from 1997, the Forester shares its platform with the Impreza.
__NOTOC__
Sutton SignWriting, or simply, SignWriting, is a system of writing sign languages. It is highly featural and visually iconic, both in the shapes of the characters, which are abstract pictures of the hands, face, and body, and in their spatial arrangement on the page, which does not follow a sequential order like the letters that make up written English words.
Signal processing concerns the analysis, synthesis, and modification of signals, which are broadly defined as functions conveying &quot;information about the behavior or attributes of some phenomenon&quot;, such as sound, images, and biological measurements. For example, signal processing techniques are used to improve signal transmission fidelity, storage efficiency, and subjective quality, and to emphasize or detect components of interest in a measured signal.
thumb|upright|The spectrum in a [[rainbow]]
Social dynamics can refer to the behavior of groups that results from the interactions of individual group members as well to the study of the relationship between individual interactions and group level behaviors.  The field of social dynamics brings together ideas from Economics, Sociology, Social Psychology, and other disciplines, and is a sub-field of complex adaptive systems or complexity science.
Social evolution is a subdiscipline of evolutionary biology that is concerned with social behaviors that have fitness consequences for individuals other than the actor. Social behaviors can be categorized according to the fitness consequences they entail for the actor and recipient.
Systemic functional grammar (SFG) is a form of grammatical description originated by Michael Halliday. It is part of a social semiotic approach to language called systemic functional linguistics.
}}
thumb|A 5-tube superheterodyne receiver made in Japan around 1955
Seventh Day Baptists (SDBs) are a Baptist denomination which observes the Sabbath on the seventh-day of the week—Saturday—in accordance with the Biblical Sabbath of the Ten Commandments (Exodus 20:8, Deuteronomy 5:12). The movement originated in mid-17th century England and spread within a few years to the British colonies in North America.
Shem (; ;  Sēm; Ge'ez: ሴም, Sēm; &quot;renown; prosperity; name&quot;; Arabic:  Sām) was one of the sons of Noah in the Hebrew Bible as well as in Islamic literature. Genesis 10:21 refers to relative ages of Shem and his brother Japheth, but with sufficient ambiguity to have yielded different English translations.
Sambuca () is an Italian anise-flavoured, usually colourless, liqueur. Its most common variety is often referred to as white sambuca to differentiate it from other varieties that are deep blue in colour (black sambuca) or bright red (red sambuca).
Sweeney Todd is a fictional character who first appeared as the villain of the Victorian penny dreadful The String of Pearls (1846–47).
In computer science, selection sort is a sorting algorithm, specifically an in-place comparison sort. It has O(n2) time complexity, making it inefficient on large lists, and generally performs worse than the similar insertion sort.
Snake oil, originally a fraudulent liniment without snake extract, has come to refer to any product with questionable or unverifiable quality or benefit. By extension, a snake oil salesman is someone who knowingly sells fraudulent goods or who is a fraud, quack, or charlatan.
The International Society of Cryptozoology (ISC) was an organization dedicated to the pseudoscience of cryptozoology founded in 1982 in Washington, D.C.
&quot;Send in the Clowns&quot; is a song written by Stephen Sondheim for the 1973 musical A Little Night Music, an adaptation of Ingmar Bergman's film Smiles of a Summer Night. It is a ballad from Act Two, in which the character Desirée reflects on the ironies and disappointments of her life.
The Spiel des Jahres (German for Game of the Year) is an award for board and card games, created in 1978 with the stated purpose of rewarding excellence in game design, and promoting top-quality games in the German market. It is thought that the existence and popularity of the award is one of the major drivers of the quality of games coming out of Germany.
}}
Shoghí Effendí Rabbání (March 1, 1897 – November 4, 1957), better known as Shoghi Effendi, was the Guardian and appointed head of the Bahá'í Faith from 1921 until his death in 1957. After the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1921, the leadership of the Bahá'í community changed from that of a single individual to an administrative order with executive and legislative branches, the head of each being the Guardianship and the Universal House of Justice, respectively.
In mathematics, the slope or gradient of a line is a number that describes both the direction and the steepness of the line. Slope is often denoted by the letter m; there is no clear answer to the question why the letter m is used for slope, but it might be from the &quot;m for multiple&quot; in the equation of a straight line &quot;y = mx + b&quot; or &quot;y = mx + c&quot;.
A sex organ (also called a reproductive organ, primary sex organ, or primary sexual characteristic) is any anatomical part of the body in a complex organism that is involved in sexual reproduction and together constitute the reproductive system. The external and visible organs, in males and females, are the primary sex organs known as the genitals or genitalia.
File:Snakes Diversity.jpg|250px
A steam turbine is a device that extracts thermal energy from pressurized steam and uses it to do mechanical work on a rotating output shaft. Its modern manifestation was invented by Sir Charles Parsons in 1884.
}}
Shiva  (, literally &quot;seven&quot;) is the week-long mourning period in Judaism for first-degree relatives: father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, and spouse. The ritual is referred to as &quot;sitting shiva&quot;.
A semi-trailer truck, more commonly called a semi truck (often shortened to just &quot;semi&quot;), is the combination of a tractor unit and one or more semi-trailers to carry freight. It is variously known as a transport (truck) in Canada; semi or single in Australia and New Zealand; semi, tractor-trailer, big rig, or eighteen-wheeler in the United States; and articulated lorry, abbreviated artic, in Great Britain and Ireland.
thumb|alt=A black and white photograph of the Stonewall Inn, showing half of a sign that was placed in the window by the Mattachine Society several days following the riots|The [[Stonewall Inn, taken September 1969. The sign in the window reads: &quot;We homosexuals plead with our people to please help maintain peaceful and quiet conduct on the streets of the Village.
In Boolean functions and propositional calculus, the Sheffer stroke, named after Henry M. Sheffer, written &quot;|&quot; (see vertical bar, not to be confused with &quot;||&quot; which is often used to represent disjunction), &quot;Dpq&quot;, or &quot;↑&quot; (an upwards arrow), denotes a logical operation that is equivalent to the negation of the conjunction operation, expressed in ordinary language as &quot;not both&quot;.
thumb|300px|right|Image showing the six most common speleothems with labels. Enlarge to view labels.
Stranger in Paradise}}
Summer is is the hottest of the four temperate seasons, falling between spring and autumn. At the summer solstice, the days are longest and the nights are shortest, with day-length decreasing as the season progresses after the solstice.
Spring(s) may refer to:
Shrikes () are carnivorous passerine birds of the family Laniidae. The family is composed of thirty-one species in four genera.
A screwdriver is a popular alcoholic highball drink made with orange juice and vodka. While the basic drink is simply the two ingredients, there are many variations; the most common one is made with one part vodka, one part of any kind of orange soda, and one part of orange juice.
}}
Structural biology is a branch of molecular biology, biochemistry, and biophysics concerned with the molecular structure of biological macromolecules, especially amino and nucleic acids, how they acquire the structures they have, and how alterations in their structures affect their function. This subject is of great interest to biologists because macromolecules carry out most of the functions of cells, and only by coiling into specific three-dimensional shapes that they are able to perform these functions.
Sunni Islam ( or ) is the largest denomination of Islam. Its name comes from the word Sunnah, referring to the exemplary behaviour of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.
Sour mix (also known as sweet and sour mix) is a mixer that is yellow-green in color and is used in many cocktails. It is made from approximately equal parts lemon and/or lime juice and simple syrup and shaken vigorously with ice.
Superworld is a superhero-themed role-playing game published by Chaosium in 1983.  Written by Basic Role-Playing and RuneQuest author Steve Perrin, Superworld began as one third of the Worlds of Wonder product, which also included a generic fantasy setting, &quot;Magic World&quot;, and a generic science fiction setting, &quot;Future World&quot;, all using the same core Basic Role-Playing rules.
Stuart Little is a 1945 children's novel by E. B.
A statite (a portmanteau of static and satellite) is a hypothetical type of artificial satellite that employs a solar sail to continuously modify its orbit in ways that gravity alone would not allow. Typically, a statite would use the solar sail to &quot;hover&quot; in a location that would not otherwise be available as a stable geosynchronous orbit.
Stanford may refer to:
Solar sails (also called light sails or photon sails) are a form of spacecraft propulsion using radiation pressure exerted by sunlight on large mirrors. A useful analogy may be a sailing boat; the light exerting a force on the mirrors is akin to a sail being blown by the wind.
In Christianity, Sabellianism in the Eastern church or Patripassianism in the Western church (also known as modalism, modalistic monarchianism, or modal monarchism) is the nontrinitarian or anti-Trinitarian belief that the Heavenly Father, Resurrected Son, and Holy Spirit are three different modes or aspects of one monadic God, as perceived by the believer, rather than three distinct persons within the Godhead—that there are no real or substantial differences among the three, such that there is no substantial identity for the Spirit or the Son.G.
)
In mathematics, specifically in ring theory, the simple modules over a ring R are the (left or right) modules over R that have no non-zero proper submodules.  Equivalently, a module M is simple if and only if every cyclic submodule generated by a non-zero element of M equals M.
thumb|300px|French [[Georges Leygues frigate|F70 type frigates (here, La Motte-Picquet) are fitted with VDS (Variable Depth Sonar) type DUBV43 or DUBV43C towed sonars]]
Slavs are the largest Indo-European ethno-linguistic group in Europe. They are native to Central Europe, Eastern Europe, Southeastern Europe, Northeastern Europe, North Asia, Central Asia and West Asia.
w/o Apollo CSM
Sacramento is the capital of the U.S.
thumb|DEC StrongARM SA-110 microprocessor
Smallfilms is a British television producution company which made animated tv programmes for children from 1959 until the 1980s.BBC Genome - The BBC-tv career of Oliver Postgate In 2014 the company began operating again, producing a new series of its most famous show, The Clangers.
This is a list of mayors of Sacramento, California. The Sacramento City Council met for the first time on August 1, 1849 and the citizens approved the city charter on October 13, 1849.
Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening a polity or corporation through subversion, obstruction, disruption or destruction. In a workplace setting, sabotage is the conscious withdrawal of efficiency generally directed at causing some change in workplace conditions.
A scabbard is a sheath for holding a sword, knife, or other large blade. Scabbards have been made of many materials over the millennia, including leather, wood, and metals such as brass or steel.
m)H-M symbol: (4/m  2/m)
Speech recognition is the inter-disciplinary sub-field of computational linguistics that develops methodologies and technologies that enables the recognition and translation of spoken language into text by computers. It is also known as &quot;automatic speech recognition&quot; (ASR), &quot;computer speech recognition&quot;, or just &quot;speech to text&quot; (STT).
m) H-M symbol: (2/m)
Slack voice (or lax voice) is the pronunciation of consonant or vowels with a glottal opening slightly wider than that occurring in modal voice. Such sounds are often referred to informally as lenis or half-voiced in the case of consonants.
SADC may stand for:
Salvation (Latin salvatio; Greek σωτηρία sōtēria; Hebrew yasha; Arabic الخلاص; Urdu نجات) is being saved or protected from harmSalvation. Dictionary.
The Lockheed S-3 Viking is a four-seat, twin-engine turbofan-powered jet aircraft that was used by the U.S.
The Kaman SH-2 Seasprite is a ship-based helicopter originally developed in the late 1950s as a fast utility helicopter for the United States Navy. In the 1970s, anti-submarine, anti-surface threat capabilities were added to the design, including over-the-horizon targeting, resulting in modifying most existing UH-2 models to the SH-2 Seasprite.
In phonetics, a stop, also known as a plosive or oral occlusive, is a consonant in which the vocal tract is blocked so that all airflow ceases.
Stayman is a bidding convention in the card game contract bridge. It is used by a partnership to find a 4-4 or 5-3 trump fit in a  suit after making a one  (1NT) opening bid and it has been adapted for use after a 2NT opening, a 1NT overcall, and many other natural notrump bids.
A skyscraper is a tall, continuously habitable building having multiple floors. When the term was originally used in the 1880s it described a building of 10 to 20 floors but now describes one of at least 40–50 floors.
The Sagas of Icelanders (), also known as family sagas, are prose narratives mostly based on historical events that mostly took place in Iceland in the 9th, 10th, and early 11th centuries, during the so-called Saga Age. They are the best-known specimens of Icelandic literature.
* alternative rock
The Science &amp; Environmental Policy Project (SEPP) is a research and advocacy group financed by private contributions based in Arlington, Virginia in the United States. It was founded in 1990 by atmospheric physicist S.
Secondary education covers two phases on the ISCED scale. Level 2 or lower secondary education (less common junior secondary education) is considered the second and final phase of basic education, and level 3 (upper) secondary education is the stage before tertiary education.
Serotonin syndrome (SS) is a group of symptoms that may occur following use of certain serotonergic medications or drugs. The degree of symptoms can range from mild to severe.
Sustainable development is the organizing principle for meeting human development goals while at the same time sustaining the ability of natural systems to provide the natural resources and ecosystem services upon which the economy and society depend. The desirable end result is a state of society where living conditions and resource use continue to meet human needs without undermining the integrity and stability of the natural systems.
}}
Simula is the name of two simulation programming languages, Simula I and Simula 67, developed in the 1960s at the Norwegian Computing Center in Oslo, by Ole-Johan Dahl and Kristen Nygaard. Syntactically, it is a fairly faithful superset of ALGOL 60.
Statistical physics is a branch of physics that uses methods of probability theory and statistics, and particularly the mathematical tools for dealing with large populations and approximations, in solving physical problems. It can describe a wide variety of fields with an inherently stochastic nature.
In computer science, a function or expression is said to have a side effect if it modifies some state outside its scope or has an observable interaction with its calling functions or the outside world besides returning a value. For example, a particular function might modify a global variable or static variable, modify one of its arguments, raise an exception, write data to a display or file, read data, or call other side-effecting functions.
This is a list of science fiction editors, editors working for book and magazine publishing companies who have edited science fiction. Many have also edited works of fantasy and other related genres, all of which have been sometimes grouped under the name speculative fiction.
In mathematics, a square-free integer is an integer which is divisible by no perfect square other than 1. For example, 10 is square-free but 18 is not, as 18 is divisible by 9 = 32.
}}
Sebastian Shaw is the name of:
The Savage Land is a hidden fictional prehistoric land appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. It is a tropical preserve hidden in Antarctica.
Scientific misconduct is the violation of the standard codes of scholarly conduct and ethical behavior in reporting or performing professional scientific research.  A Lancet review on Handling of Scientific Misconduct in Scandinavian countries provides the following sample definitions: (reproduced in The COPE report 1999.
thumb|right|250px|Three cards from a Set deck. These cards each have a unique number, symbol, shading, and color, and are thus a &quot;set&quot;.
The Single UNIX Specification (SUS) is the collective name of a family of standards for computer operating systems, compliance with which is required to qualify for using the &quot;UNIX&quot; trademark. The core specifications of the SUS are developed and maintained by the Austin Group, which is a joint working group of IEEE, ISO JTC 1 SC22 and The Open Group.
The scientific revolution is a concept used by historians to describe the emergence of modern science during the early modern period, when developments in mathematics, physics, astronomy, biology (including human anatomy) and chemistry transformed the views of society about nature.Galilei, Galileo (1974) Two New Sciences, trans.
The Salian dynasty (; also known as the Frankish dynasty after the family's origin and position as dukes of Franconia) was a dynasty in the High Middle Ages. The dynasty provided four German Kings (1024–1125), all of whom went on to be crowned Holy Roman Emperor (1027–1125); as such, the term Salic dynasty is also used to refer to the Holy Roman Empire of the time as a separate term.
thumb|right|200px|[[Molecular structure of DNA ]]
}}
This is a list of the most famous tourist destinations of Sardinia. Minor islands are included from Olbia, clockwise — industrial sites are not included.
This is a list of famous people from or with origins in the island of Sardinia.
Saint Gavinus () is a Christian saint who is greatly celebrated in Sardinia, Italy, as one of the Martyrs of Torres (), along with his companions SS Protus and Januarius.
Sienna (from , &quot;Siena earth&quot;) is an earth pigment containing iron oxide and manganese oxide.  In its natural state, it is yellow-brown and is called raw sienna.
== Purpose of the list ==
The Miller test, also called the three prong obscenity test, is the United States Supreme Court's test for determining whether speech or expression can be labeled obscene, in which case it is not protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and can be prohibited.
A set-top box (STB) or set-top unit (STU) (one type also colloquially known as a cable box) is an information appliance device that generally contains a TV-tuner input and displays output to a television set and an external source of signal, turning the source signal into content in a form that can then be displayed on the television screen or other display device. They are used in cable television, satellite television, and over-the-air television systems, as well as other uses.
}}
In mathematical analysis and in probability theory, a σ-algebra (also σ-field) on a set X is a collection Σ of subsets of X that includes the empty subset, is closed under complement, and is closed under countable unions and countable intersections. The pair (X, Σ) is called a measurable space.
A sextant is a doubly reflecting navigation instrument that measures the angular distance between two visible objects.
The single transferable vote (STV) is a voting system designed to achieve proportional representation through ranked voting in multi-seat organizations or constituencies (voting districts). Under STV, an elector (voter) has a single vote that is initially allocated to their most preferred candidate and, as the count proceeds and candidates are either elected or eliminated, is transferred to other candidates according to the voter's stated preferences, in proportion to any surplus or discarded votes.
A stellarator is a device used to confine hot plasma with magnetic fields in order to sustain a controlled nuclear fusion reaction. The name refers to the possibility of harnessing the power source of the sun, a stellar object.
SLA may refer to:
SYSTRAN, founded by Dr. Peter Toma in 1968,Systran: Past and Present - https://lilab.
975
Sprite most commonly refers to:
San Giovanni di Posada (Latin: Portus Luguidonis or Portus Liquidonis) is a frazione and small village in Sardinia, Italy, on the Tyrrhenian coast of the island, in the territory of the comune of Posada.
late 1867 or 1868 (tombstone says November 24, 1868)
In music, syncopation involves a variety of rhythms which are in some way unexpected which make part or all of a tune or piece of music off-beat. More simply, syncopation is a general term for &quot;a disturbance or interruption of the regular flow of rhythm&quot;: a &quot;placement of rhythmic stresses or accents where they wouldn't normally occur.
Strategy (from Greek στρατηγία stratēgia, &quot;art of troop leader; office of general, command, generalship&quot;στρατηγία, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus) is a high level plan to achieve one or more goals under conditions of uncertainty. In the sense of the &quot;art of the general&quot;, which included several subsets of skills including &quot;tactics&quot;, siegecraft, logistics etc.
Scripture is that portion of literature deemed authoritative for establishing instructions within any of a number of specific religious traditions, especially the Abrahamic religions
Syncretism () is the combining of different beliefs, while blending practices of various schools of thought. Syncretism involves the merging or assimilation  of several originally discrete traditions, especially in the theology and mythology of religion, thus asserting an underlying unity and allowing for an inclusive approach to other faiths.
The S7G reactor was a prototype naval reactor designed for the United States Navy to provide electricity generation and propulsion on warships.  The S7G designation stands for:
In linguistic typology, subject–verb–object (SVO) is a sentence structure where the subject comes first, the verb second, and the object third. Languages may be classified according to the dominant sequence of these elements in unmarked sentences (i.
Segway may refer to:
California State Capitol
The Sierpinski carpet is a plane fractal first described by Wacław Sierpiński in 1916.  The carpet is one generalization of the Cantor set to two dimensions; another is the Cantor dust.
Subspace may refer to:
The Sierpinski triangle (also with the original orthography Sierpiński), also called the Sierpinski gasket or the Sierpinski Sieve,  is a fractal and attractive fixed set with the overall shape of an equilateral triangle, subdivided recursively into smaller equilateral triangles. Originally constructed as a curve, this is one of the basic examples of self-similar sets, i.
(Sibir)
The Standard Arabic Technical Transliteration System, commonly referred to by its acronym SATTS, is a system for writing and transmitting Arabic language text using the one-for-one substitution of ASCII-range characters for the letters of the Arabic alphabet. Unlike more common systems for transliterating Arabic, SATTS does not provide the reader with any more phonetic information than standard Arabic orthography does; that is, it provides the bare Arabic alphabetic spelling with no notation of short vowels, doubled consonants, etc.
}}
Sulpicius Severus (; c. 363 – c.
thumb|right|250px|The historic [[Contax|Zeiss Ikon VEB Contax S, manufactured in Dresden, one of the two original pentaprism SLRs for eye-level viewing that went into production in 1949. The Italian Rectaflex offered its first production SLR, the series 1000, the same year.
SAS or Sas may refer to:
The senary numeral system (also known as base-6 or heximal) has six as its base. It has been adopted independently by a small number of cultures.
}}
This article lists Dukes, Electors, and Kings ruling over different territories named Saxony from the beginning of the Saxon Duchy in the 9th century to the end of the Saxon Kingdom in 1918.
In microeconomics, supply and demand is an economic model of price determination in a market. It postulates that in a competitive market, the unit price for a particular good, or other traded item such as labor or liquid financial assets, will vary until it settles at a point where the quantity demanded (at the current price) will equal the quantity supplied (at the current price), resulting in an economic equilibrium for price and quantity transacted.
State capitalism is an economic system in which the state undertakes commercial (i.e.
,
thumb|250px|A trader in Germany, 16th century
The tambourine is a musical instrument in the percussion family consisting of a frame, often of wood or plastic, with pairs of small metal jingles, called &quot;zils&quot;. Classically the term tambourine denotes an instrument with a drumhead, though some variants may not have a head at all.
mixed doubles
Tourism is travel for pleasure or business; also the theory and practice of touring, the business of attracting, accommodating, and entertaining tourists, and the business of operating tours. Tourism may be international, or within the traveller's country.
This is a list of types of medical therapy, including forms of traditional medicine, alternative medicine, and quackery. For psychotherapies and other behavioral and psychological intervention methods, see list of psychotherapies.
Tamil may refer to:
}}
A tort, in common law jurisdictions, is a civil wrongGlanville Williams, or grounds for lawsuit. Learning the Law.
The War of the Worlds is an 1898 science fiction novel written by H. G.
Technology (&quot;science of craft&quot;, from Greek , techne, &quot;art, skill, cunning of hand&quot;; and , [book|title=A Greek-English Lexicon] (Abridged Edition)|first=Henry George|last2=Scott|first2=Robert|publisher=[[Oxford University Press|year=1980|isbn=0-19-910207-4|location=United Kingdom|pages=|quote=|via=|author=Liddell}}) is the collection of techniques, skills, [and processes] used in the production of [[Good (economics)|goods or services or in the accomplishment of objectives, such as scientific investigation. Technology can be the knowledge of techniques, processes, and the like, or it can be embedded in machines to allow for operation without detailed knowledge of their workings.
The Doors of Perception is a philosophical essay, released as a book, by Aldous Huxley. First published in 1954, it details his experiences when taking mescaline.
Thomas Hobbs}}
Terraforming (literally, &quot;Earth-shaping&quot;) of a planet, moon, or other body is the hypothetical process of deliberately modifying its atmosphere, temperature, surface topography or ecology to be similar to the environment of Earth to make it habitable by Earth-like life.
In law, the expression trial de novo means a &quot;new trial&quot; by a different tribunal (de novo is a Latin expression meaning &quot;afresh&quot;, &quot;anew&quot;, &quot;beginning again&quot;, hence the literal meaning &quot;new trial&quot;). A trial de novo is usually ordered by an appellate court when the original trial failed to make a determination in a manner dictated by law.
Television (TV) is a telecommunication medium used for transmitting moving images in monochrome (black and white), or in color, and in two or three dimensions and sound. The term can refer to a television set, a television program (&quot;TV show&quot;), or the medium of television transmission.
(see usage)
}}
, Maggie, Homer, Lisa, and Snowball II .
* post-punk
}}
Goon}}
Marjorie Jacqueline &quot;Marge&quot; Simpson (née Bouvier) is a fictional character in the American animated sitcom The Simpsons and part of the eponymous family. She is voiced by Julie Kavner and first appeared on television in The Tracey Ullman Show short &quot;Good Night&quot; on April 19, 1987.
Truth is most often used to mean being in accord with fact or reality,Merriam-Webster's Online Dictionary, truth, 2005 or fidelity to an original or standard. Truth may also often be used in modern contexts to refer to an idea of &quot;truth to self,&quot; or authenticity.
border
Telepathy (from the Greek τῆλε, tele meaning &quot;distant&quot; and πάθος, pathos or -patheia meaning &quot;feeling, perception, passion, affliction, experience&quot;)Telepathy. CollinsDictionary.
Senior military college
thumb|right|200px|The Texas Declaration of Independence
Rabbinic Judaism describes seven names which are so holy that, once written, should not be erased: The Tetragrammaton  (whether written YHWH or Adonai), El (&quot;God&quot;), Eloah (&quot;God&quot;), Elohim (&quot;Gods&quot;), Shaddai (&quot;God Almighty&quot;), Ehyeh, and Tzevaot (&quot;[of] Hosts&quot;). Other names are considered mere epithets or titles reflecting different aspects of God, but chumrah sometimes dictates special care such as the writing of &quot;G-d&quot; instead of &quot;God&quot; in English or saying Ṭēt-Vav (}},  &quot;9-6&quot;) instead of Yōd-Hē (}},  &quot;10-5&quot; but also &quot;Jah&quot;) for the number fifteen in Hebrew..
thumb|250px|right|A typical trick. South has led the Jack of Diamonds and no-one else has been able to &quot;follow suit&quot;.
A tile-based game is a game that uses tiles as one of the fundamental elements of play. Traditional tile-based games use small tiles as playing pieces for gambling or entertainment games.
Thermodynamics is a branch of physics concerned with heat and temperature and their relation to energy and work. The behavior of these quantities is governed by the four laws of thermodynamics, irrespective of the composition or specific properties of the material or system in question.
thumb|240px|[[Möbius strips, which have only one surface and one edge, are a kind of object studied in topology.]]
thumb|260px|Look at them, troll mother said. Look at my sons!
A trade secret is a formula, practice, process, design, instrument, pattern, commercial method, or compilation of information not generally known or reasonably ascertainable by others by which a business can obtain an economic advantage over competitors or customers. In some jurisdictions, such secrets are referred to as &quot;confidential information&quot; but are generally not referred to as &quot;classified information&quot; in the United States, since that refers to government secrets protected by a different set of laws and practices.
In mathematics, tensors are geometric objects that describe linear relations between geometric vectors, scalars, and other tensors.  Elementary examples of such relations include the dot product, the cross product, and linear maps.
not Hook.f.
Thyme () is an aromatic perennial evergreen herb with culinary, medicinal, and ornamental uses.
Cup of Tea}}
A tank is an armoured fighting vehicle designed for front-line combat, with heavy firepower, strong armour, and tracks providing good battlefield maneuverability. The first tanks were designed to overcome the deadlock of trench warfare; now they are a mainstay of modern ground forces and a key part of combined arms combat.
Herbal teas — less commonlyGoogle Ngram Viewer called herb teas or tisanes (UK and US , US also )Cambridge Advanced Learner's DictionaryCollins DictionaryAmerican Heritage Dictionary — and fruit teas are beverages made from the infusion or decoction of herbs, spices, fruits, or other plant material in hot water. They do not usually contain caffeine.
Total war is warfare that includes any and all civilian-associated resources and infrastructure as legitimate military targets, mobilizes all of the resources of society to fight the war, and gives priority to warfare over non-combatant needs. The American-English Dictionary defines total war as &quot;war that is unrestricted in terms of the weapons used, the territory or combatants involved, or the objectives pursued, especially one in which the laws of war are disregarded.
In law, time constraints are placed on certain actions and filings in the interest of speedy justice, and additionally to prevent the evasion of the ends of justice by waiting until a matter is moot.  The penalty for violating a legislative or court-imposed time constraint may be anything from a small fine to judicial determination of an entire case against one's interests.
TS or Ts may refer to:
* genitive
A taco is a traditional Mexican dish composed of a corn or wheat tortilla folded or rolled around a filling. A taco can be made with a variety of fillings, including beef, pork, chicken, seafood, vegetables, and cheese, allowing for great versatility and variety.
The Penguins were an American doo-wop group of the 1950s and early 1960s, best remembered for their only Top 40 hit, &quot;Earth Angel&quot;, which was one of the first rhythm and blues hits to cross over to the pop charts. The song peaked at #8 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, but had a three-week run at #1 on the R&amp;B chart, later used in the Back to the Future movies.
Mexico-Tenochtitlan (, ), commonly known as Tenochtitlan (), was a Mexica city-state on an island in Lake Texcoco in the Valley of Mexico. Founded on June 20, 1325, it was the capital of the expanding Aztec Empire in the 15th century until it was captured by the Spanish in 1521.
The Triassic () is a geologic period and system which spans 50.9 million years from the end of the Permian Period  million years ago (Mya), to the beginning of the Jurassic Period  Mya.
Social Security Index
The Shockwave Rider is a science fiction novel by John Brunner, originally published in 1975. It is notable for its hero's use of computer hacking skills to escape pursuit in a dystopian future, and for the coining of the word &quot;worm&quot; to describe a program that propagates itself through a computer network.
The Thin Blue Line, a colloquial term for police forces, may refer to:
The Shining is a horror novel by American author Stephen King. Published in 1977, it is King's third published novel and first hardback bestseller: the success of the book firmly established King as a preeminent author in the horror genre.
The theory of relativity usually encompasses two interrelated theories by Albert Einstein: special relativity and general relativity. Special relativity applies to elementary particles and their interactions, describing all their physical phenomena except gravity.
A telephone, or phone, is a telecommunications device that permits two or more users to conduct a conversation when they are too far apart to be heard directly. A telephone converts sound, typically and most efficiently the human voice, into electronic signals suitable for  transmission via cables or other transmission media over long distances, and replays such signals simultaneously in audible form to its user.
Telegraphy (from Greek: τῆλε [&quot;at a distance&quot; and γράφειν gráphein], &quot;to write&quot;) is the long-distance transmission of textual or symbolic (as opposed to verbal or audio) messages without the physical exchange of an object bearing the message. Thus [[flag semaphore|semaphore is a method of telegraphy, whereas pigeon post is not.
A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify or switch electronic signals and electrical power. It is composed of semiconductor material usually with at least three terminals for connection to an external circuit.
Time is the indefinite continued progress of existence and events that occur in apparently irreversible succession from the past through the present to the future.
Tone may refer to:
Tifinagh (; also written  in the Berber Latin alphabet; Neo-Tifinagh: ; Tuareg Tifinagh:  or ) is an abjad used to write the Berber languages.To a limited extent: See Interview with Karl-G.
}}
}}
}}
Mort is a Discworld novel by Terry Pratchett. Published in 1987, it is the fourth Discworld novel and the first to focus on the character Death, who only appeared as a side character in the previous novels.
200px|thumb|Tor Nørretranders speaking at [[Reboot (conference)|Reboot 10 in Copenhagen]]
Titanium is a chemical element with symbol Ti and atomic number 22. It is a lustrous transition metal with a silver color, low density, and high strength.
Technetium is a chemical element with symbol Tc and atomic number 43. It is the lightest element whose isotopes are all radioactive; none are stable.
Tin is a chemical element with symbol Sn (from ) and atomic number 50. It is a post-transition metal in group 14 of the periodic table.
Tellurium is a chemical element with symbol Te and atomic number 52. It is a brittle, mildly toxic, rare, silver-white metalloid.
Thorium is a chemical element with symbol Th and atomic number 90. Thorium metal is silvery and tarnishes black when exposed to air, forming the dioxide; it is moderately hard, malleable, and has a high melting point.
Terbium is a chemical element with symbol Tb and atomic number 65. It is a silvery-white, rare earth metal that is malleable, ductile, and soft enough to be cut with a knife.
Tungsten, also known as wolfram, is a chemical element with symbol W and atomic number 74. The name tungsten comes from the former Swedish name for the tungstate mineral scheelite, from tung sten &quot;heavy stone&quot;.
Thulium is a chemical element with symbol Tm and atomic number 69. It is the thirteenth and [element in the lanthanide] series.
Tantalum is a chemical element with symbol Ta and atomic number 73. Previously known as tantalium, its name comes from Tantalus, a villain from Greek mythology.
thumb|right|A burning torch, discarded on the road in the wake of the [[Lewes Bonfire Night celebrations.]]
Thule is a semi-mythical place, usually an island.
In computing, a Trojan horse, or Trojan, is any malicious computer program which misleads users of its true intent. The term is derived from the Ancient Greek story of the deceptive wooden horse that led to the fall of the city of Troy.
In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the Achaeans (Greeks) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus, king of Sparta. The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature, most notably through Homer's Iliad.
A fugitive is a person fleeing from arrest.
The Big Test: The Secret History of the American Meritocracy is a 1999  history book by Nicholas Lemann .
A tradition is a belief or behavior passed down within a group or society with symbolic meaning or special significance with origins in the past. Common examples include holidays or impractical but socially meaningful clothes (like lawyers' wigs or military officers' spurs), but the idea has also been applied to social norms such as greetings.
Louis M. Lyons.
T (named tee &quot;T&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;tee&quot;, op. cit.
624 BC
Talk radio is a radio format containing discussion about topical issues. Most shows are regularly hosted by a single individual, and often feature interviews with a number of different guests.
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid , is an endocrine gland in the neck, consisting of two lobes connected by an isthmus. It is found at the front of the neck, below the Adam's apple.
}}
The politics of the Republic of China take place in a framework of a representative democratic republic, whereby the President is head of state and the Premier (Chef of the Executive Yuan) is head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
border
The foreign relations of the Republic of China (ROC), known informally and referred to by many states as Taiwan, are the relations between the Republic of China and other countries. The Republic of China is recognized by  out of 193 United Nations member states, as well as the Holy See.
}}
The problem of evil refers to the question of how to reconcile the existence of evil with an omnibenevolent, omniscient, and omnipotent  God (see theism).The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, &quot;The Problem of Evil&quot;, Michael TooleyThe Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, &quot;The Evidential Problem of Evil&quot;, Nick Trakakis An argument from evil attempts to show that the co-existence of evil and such a God is unlikely or impossible.
Theodicy (), in its most common form, is an attempt to answer the question of why a good God permits the manifestation of evil. Some theodicies also address the evidential problem of evil by attempting &quot;to make the existence of an all-knowing, all-powerful and all-good or omnibenevolent God consistent with the existence of evil&quot; or suffering in the world.
Tajikistan harkens to the Samanid Empire (875–999). The Tajik people came under Russian rule in the 1860s.
thumb|430px|Map of Tajikistan
The Demographics of Tajikistan is about the demographic features of the population of Tajikistan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population.
}}
$8.508 billion (2013 est.
}}
Most of Tajikistan's transportation system was built during the Soviet era, and since that time the system has deteriorated badly because of insufficient investment and maintenance. In 2013, Tajikistan, like many of the other Central Asian countries, was experiencing major development in its transportation sector.
Foreign relations of Tajikistan are based on a desire to secure foreign investment and promote regional security while ensuring Tajikistan's independence. Sirodjidin Mukhridinovich Aslov is the Foreign Minister of Tajikistan.
The African Great Lakes nation of Tanzania dates formally from 1964, when it was formed out of the union of the much larger mainland territory of Tanganyika and the coastal archipelago of Zanzibar. The former was a colony and part of German East Africa from the 1880s to 1919, when, under the League of Nations, it became a British mandate.
right|Map of Tanzania
}}
The politics of Tanzania takes place in a framework of a unitary presidential democratic republic, whereby the President of Tanzania is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Tanzania include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet available in mainland Tanzania and the semiautonomous Zanzibar archipelago.
Transport in Tanzania includes road, rail, air and water networks. The road network is  long, of which  is classified as trunk road and  as regional road.
Tanzania's first president, Julius Nyerere also was one of the founding members of the Non-Aligned Movement, and, during the Cold War era, Tanzania played an important role in regional and international organisations, such as the Non-Aligned Movement, the front-line states, the G-77, and the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) (now the African Union). One of Africa's best-known elder statesmen, Nyerere was personally active in many of these organisations, and served chairman of the OAU (1984–85) and chairman of six front-line states concerned with eliminating apartheid in Southern Africa.
Ratcha-anachak Thai
Thai people, who originally lived in southwestern China, migrated into mainland Southeast Asia over a period of many centuries. The oldest known mention of their existence in the region by the exonym Siamese is in a 12th-century inscription at the Khmer temple complex of Angkor Wat in Cambodia, which refers to syam, or &quot;dark brown&quot;, people.
thumb|right|250px
The demographics of Thailand paint a statistical portrait of the national population. It includes such measures as population density and distribution, ethnicity, educational levels, public health metrics, fertility, economic status, religious affiliation, and other national characteristics.
Until 22 May 2014 the politics of Thailand were conducted within the framework of a constitutional monarchy, whereby the prime minister is the head of government and a hereditary monarch is head of state. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislative branches.
Modern telecommunications in Thailand started in 1875 with the deployment of the first telegraph service. Historically, the development of telecommunication networks in Thailand were in the hands of the public sector.
right|thumb|250px|A large number of buses, minibuses and taxis share the streets with private vehicles at [[Ratchadamri Road, Bangkok.]]
The foreign relations of Thailand are handled by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Thailand and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Thailand.
}}
Little is known about the history of Togo before the late fifteenth century, when Portuguese explorers arrived, although there are signs of Ewe settlement for several centuries before their arrival.
right|Map of Togo|thumb
The demographics of Togo include ethnicity, population density, age, education level, health, economic status and religious affiliation.
Politics of Togo takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Togo is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
)
Telecommunications in Togo include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
This article refers to transportation in the country of Togo
Although Togo's foreign policy is nonaligned, it has strong historical and cultural ties with western Europe, especially France and Germany. Togo recognizes the People's Republic of China, North Korea, and Cuba.
The history of Tonga is recorded since the century after 900 BC, when seafarers associated with the Lapita diaspora first settled the islands which now make up the Kingdom of Tonga.D Burley et al.
Located in Oceania, Tonga is an archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, directly south of Samoa and about two-thirds of the way from Hawaii to New Zealand. It has 169 islands, 36 of them inhabited, are divided into three main groups – Vava'u, Ha'apai, and Tongatapu – and cover an -long north-south line.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Tonga, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Tonga takes place in a framework of a constitutional monarchy, whereby the King is the Head of State and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. Tonga's Prime Minister is currently appointed by the King from among the members of Parliament after having won the support of a majority of its members.
This article is about communications systems in Tonga.
Transport in Tonga includes road, air and water-based infrastructure.  There are 680 km of highways in Tonga, of which 184 km are paved, and there are a number of air and seaports.
His Majesty's Armed Forces (HMAF) is the military of Tonga. It is composed of three operational components and two support elements (logistics and training groups).
The history of Trinidad and Tobago begins with the settlements of the islands by Amerindians, specifically the Island Carib and Arawak peoples. Both islands were explored by Christopher Columbus on his third voyage in 1498.
thumb|Map of Trinidad and Tobago
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Trinidad and Tobago, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Trinidad and Tobago function within the framework of a unitary state regulated by a parliamentary democracy modelled on that of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, from which the country gained its independence in 1962. Under the 1976 republican Constitution, the British monarch was replaced as head of state by a President chosen by an electoral college composed of the members of the bicameral Parliament, consisting of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
Telecommunications in Trinidad and Tobago include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Trinidad and Tobago, a country that relies heavily on industrialisation and tourism, has various transport systems.  Trinidad is the larger island, with a business-oriented economy and the seat of the country's government and Piarco International Airport, the country's most major airport.
The Trinidad and Tobago Defence Force (TTDF) is the military organization responsible for the defence of the twin island Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. It consists of the Trinidad and Tobago Regiment, the Coast Guard, the Air Guard and the Defence Force Reserves.
Modern Trinidad and Tobago maintains close relations with its Caribbean neighbors and major North American and European trading partners. As the most industrialized and second-largest country in the English-speaking Caribbean, Trinidad and Tobago has taken a leading role in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), and strongly supports CARICOM economic integration efforts.
(Arabic)  al-Jumhūrīyah at-Tūnisīyah
Former President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali has maintained Tunisia's long-time policy of seeking good relations with the West, while playing an active role in Arab and African regional bodies. President Habib Bourguiba took a nonaligned stance but emphasized close relations with Europe and the United States.
79,814,871(31 December 2016)
The politics of Turkey takes place in a framework of a secular parliamentary representative democratic republic, whereby the Prime Minister of Turkey is the head of government, and the President of Turkey is the head of state who holds a largely ceremonial role with substantial reserve powers.
$0.861 trillionhttp://www.
This article deals with the system of transport in Turkey, both public and private.
* May 3, 1920|group=nb}}
Foreign relations of the Republic of Turkey are the Turkish government's policies in its external relations with the international community. Historically, based on the Western-inspired reforms of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, such policies have placed heavy emphasis on Turkey's relationship with the Western world, especially in relation to the United States, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union.
The history of Turkmenistan is largely shrouded in mystery, its past since the arrival of Indo-European Iranian tribes around 2000 BC is often the starting point of the area's discernible history. Early tribes were nomadic or semi-nomadic due to the arid conditions of the region as the steppe culture in Central Asia was an extension of a larger Eurasian series of horse cultures which spanned the entire spectrum of language families including the Indo-Europeans and Turko-Mongol groups.
right|300px|thumb|Dust storm over Turkmenistan
The Demographics of Turkmenistan is about the demographic features of the population of Turkmenistan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population. The ethnic majority in Turkmenistan call themselves Turkmen.
The politics of Turkmenistan takes place in the framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Turkmenistan is both head of state and head of government. No true opposition parties are allowed; every registered political party supports the second and current President and Arkadag Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow.
$82.29 billion (PPP, 2014 est.
Turkmenistan has a state-controlled press and monitored communication systems.
Transport in Turkmenistan includes such as roadways, railways, airways, seaways, waterways, oil, gas and water pipelines.
Turkmenistan's declaration of &quot;permanent neutrality&quot; was formally recognized by the United Nations in 1995. Former President Niyazov stated that the neutrality would prevent Turkmenistan from participating in multi-national defense organizations, but allows military assistance.
Communications in the Turks and Caicos Islands
The Western Pacific nation of Tuvalu, formerly known as the Ellice Islands, is situated  northeast of Australia and is approximately halfway between Hawaii and Australia. It lies east-northeast of the Santa Cruz Islands (belonging to the Solomons), southeast of Nauru, south of Kiribati, west of Tokelau, northwest of Samoa and Wallis and Futuna and north of Fiji.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Tuvalu, including the age structure, ethnicity, education level, life expectancy, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Telecommunications in Tuvalu need to address the geography of Tuvalu as the country is made up of 6 atolls and 3 reef islands. The islands of Tuvalu rely on satellite dishes for communication and internet access.
Traveller is a series of related science fiction role-playing games, the first published in 1977 by Game Designers' Workshop. Marc W.
A tracking shot is any shot where the camera moves alongside the object(s) it is recording. In cinematography, the term refers to a shot in which the camera is mounted on a camera dolly that is then placed on rails – like a railroad track.
}}
The regress argument (also known as the diallelusNicholas Rescher,
}}
Tertiary is the former term for the geologic period from 65 million to 2.58 million years ago, a timespan that occurs between the superseded Secondary period and the Quaternary.
The problem of other minds is a philosophical problem traditionally stated as the following epistemological challenge raised by the skeptic: given that I can only observe the behavior of others, how can I know that others have minds?  It is a central tenet of the philosophical idea known as solipsism; the notion that for any person only one's own mind is known to exist.
Tonyukuk (Old Turkic: Bilge Tuňuquq, born c. 646, died c.
Tyburn was a village in the county of Middlesex close to the current location of Marble Arch and the southern end of Edgware Road in present-day London. It took its name from the Tyburn Brook, a tributary of the River Westbourne.
The Tube map is a schematic transport map of the lines, stations and services of the London Underground, known colloquially as &quot;the Tube&quot;, hence the map's name. The first schematic Tube map was designed by Harry Beck in 1931.
Tom and Jerry are cat and mouse cartoon characters, Tom Cat and Jerry Mouse that debuted in 1940. Tom and Jerry may also refer to:
The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui (), subtitled &quot;A parable play&quot;, is a 1941 play by the German playwright Bertolt Brecht. It chronicles the rise of Arturo Ui, a fictional 1930s Chicago mobster, and his attempts to control the cauliflower racket by ruthlessly disposing of the opposition.
(four songs translated from François Villon)
Tien Gow or Tin Kau (; Cantonese: tin1 gau2; pinyin:tiān jiǔ; &quot;Heaven and Nine&quot;) is the name of Chinese gambling games  played with either a pair of dice or a set of 32 Chinese dominoes. In these games, Heaven is the top rank of the civilian suit, while Nine is the top rank of the military suit.
time signature: here there are three (3) quarter-notes (4) per measure.
Tristan Bernard (7 September 1866 – 7 December 1947) was a French playwright, novelist, journalist and lawyer.
A statistical hypothesis, sometimes called confirmatory data analysis, is a hypothesis that is testable on the basis of observing a process that is modeled via a set of random variables.Stuart A.
Tax Freedom Day is the first day of the year in which a nation as a whole has theoretically earned enough income to pay its taxes.  Every dollar that is officially considered income by the government is counted, and every payment to the government that is officially considered a tax is counted.
A tax (from the Latin [is a mandatory financial charge or some other type of levy imposed upon a taxpayer (an individual or other legal entity]) by a governmental organization in order to fund various public expenditures. A failure to pay, or evasion of or resistance to taxation, is punishable by law.
Transhumanism (abbreviated as H+ or h+) is an international and intellectual movement that aims to transform the human condition by developing and making widely available sophisticated technologies to greatly enhance human intellect and physiology.
HorrorDramaMysteryThrillerSupernatural fiction
In present-day English, the term Third World is used in reference to &quot;the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America&quot;https://en.oxforddictionaries.
Horror
Thallium is a chemical element with symbol Tl and atomic number 81. This soft gray post-transition metal is not found free in nature.
A text editor is a type of program used for editing plain text files. Such programs are sometimes known as &quot;notepad&quot; software, following the Microsoft Notepad.
thumb|right|Indoor tennis courts at the [[TeamBath|University of Bath, England]]
The Communist Manifesto (originally Manifesto of the Communist Party) is an 1848 political pamphlet by German philosophers Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. Commissioned by the Communist League and originally published in London (in German as Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei) just as the revolutions of 1848 began to erupt, the Manifesto was later recognised as one of the world's most influential political documents.
The ton is a unit of measure. It has a long history and has acquired a number of meanings and uses over the years.
talk is a Unix text chat program, originally allowing messaging only between the users logged on to one multi-user computer—but later extended to allow chat to users on other systems.
}}
In mathematics, a transcendental number is a real or complex number that is not algebraic—that is, it is not a root of a nonzero polynomial equation with integer (or, equivalently, rational) coefficients. The best-known transcendental numbers are  and e.
In mathematics, a linear order, total order, simple order, or (non-strict) ordering  is a binary relation on some set X, which is antisymmetric, transitive, and total (this relation is denoted here by infix \leq). A set paired with a total order is called a totally ordered set, a linearly ordered set, a simply ordered set, or a chain.
In voting methods, tactical voting (or strategic voting or sophisticated voting or insincere voting) occurs, in elections with more than two candidates, when a voter supports another candidate more strongly than their sincere preference in order to prevent an undesirable outcome.
In general usage, a thesaurus is a reference work that lists words grouped together according to similarity of meaning (containing synonyms and sometimes antonyms), in contrast to a dictionary, which provides definitions for words, and generally lists them in alphabetical order. The main purpose of such reference works for users &quot;to find the word, or words, by which [an] idea may be most fitly and aptly expressed&quot; – to quote Peter Mark Roget, architect of the best known thesaurus in the English language.
right|thumb|300px|[[The Death of Socrates (1787), by Jacques-Louis David]]
Pre-Socratic philosophy is ancient Greek philosophy before Socrates and schools contemporary to Socrates that were not influenced by him.Presocratic Philosophy, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2007 In Classical antiquity, the Presocratic philosophers were called physiologoi (; in English, physical or natural philosophers).
Transliteration is a type of conversion of a text from one script to anotherKharusi, N. S.
The Torah (; , &quot;instruction, teaching&quot;) is the central reference of Judaism. It has a range of meanings.
Tanak, Iran}}
The Talmud (; Hebrew:   &quot;instruction, learning&quot;, from a root  &quot;teach, study&quot;) is a central text of Rabbinic Judaism. It is also traditionally referred to as  (), a Hebrew abbreviation of , the &quot;six orders&quot;, a reference to the six orders of the Mishnah.
TWERPS (The World's Easiest Role-Playing System) is a minimalist role-playing game (RPG) originally created by Reindeer Games (whose sole product was the TWERPS line) and distributed by Gamescience. Presented as a parody of the complicated RPG systems which were prevalent at the time while still being a playable game in its own right, its simple structure and humorous nature gave it unexpected popularity.
trumpet
thumb|The [[Unicursal Hexagram, one of the important symbols in Thelema, equivalent of the but first derived in 1639 by Blaise Pascal's Hexagrammum Mysticum]]
TSR may refer to:
In chemistry, the term transition metal (or transition element) has three possible meanings:
The torr (symbol: Torr) is a unit of pressure based on an absolute scale, now defined as exactly  of a standard atmosphere.  Thus one torr is exactly |760}} pascals}} (~133.
In mathematics, the trigonometric functions (also called circular functions, angle functions or goniometric functions) are functions of an angle. They relate the angles of a triangle to the lengths of its sides.
Thermochemistry is the study of the heat energy associated with chemical reactions and/or physical transformations.  A reaction may release or absorb energy, and a phase change may do the same, such as in melting and boiling.
Korea
thumb|275px|11th century Hebrew Bible with targum, perhaps from [[Tunisia, found in Iraq: part of the Schøyen Collection.]]
The Tosefta (Talmudic Aramaic: תוספתא, &quot;supplement, addition&quot;) is a compilation of the Jewish oral law from the late 2nd century, the period of the Mishnah.
The evolution of cooperation can refer to:
The Machinery of Freedom is a nonfiction book by David D. Friedman which advocates an anarcho-capitalist society from a utilitarian / consequentialist perspective.
Tunneling or tunnelling may refer to:
right|thumb|300px|Thermophiles produce some of the bright colors of [[Grand Prismatic Spring, Yellowstone National Park]]
Torque, moment, or moment of force (see &quot;Defining terminology&quot; below) is rotational force.Serway, R.
thumb|250px|An artistic representation of a [[Turing machine. Turing machines are frequently used as theoretical models for computing.
A Turing machine is a mathematical model of computation that defines an abstract machineMinsky 1967:107 &quot;In his 1936 paper, A. M.
Trail riding is riding outdoors on trails, bridle paths, and forest roads, but not on roads regularly used by motorised traffic. A trail ride can be of any length, including a long distance, multi-day trip.
A tetromino is a geometric shape composed of four squares, connected orthogonally. This, like dominoes and pentominoes, is a particular type of polyomino.
The following is a list of the highest-grossing films in Canada and the United States, a market known in the film industry as the North American box office and the domestic box office, and where &quot;gross&quot; is defined in US dollars.
Tuner may refer to someone or something which adjusts or configures a mechanical, electronic, or musical device.
Total internal reflection is the phenomenon which occurs when a propagated wave strikes a medium boundary at an angle larger than a particular critical angle with respect to the normal to the surface. If the refractive index is lower on the other side of the boundary and the incident angle is greater than the critical angle, the wave cannot pass through and is entirely reflected.
thumb|right|300px|A corner of the pub, formerly the landlord's sitting-room where the Inklings met. There is a small display of [[memorabilia.
TV or television is a telecommunication medium for transmitting and receiving moving images and sound.
}}
The thunderbird is a legendary creature in certain North American indigenous peoples' history and culture.  It is considered a supernatural being of power and strength.
A theory of everything (ToE), final theory, ultimate theory, or master theory is a hypothetical single, all-encompassing, coherent theoretical framework of physics that fully explains and links together all physical aspects of the universe. Finding a ToE is one of the major unsolved problems in physics.
possibly Nibhurrereya (as referenced in the Amarna letters)
Totalitarianism is a political system in which the state recognizes no limits to its authority and strives to regulate every aspect of public and private life wherever feasible.         A distinctive feature of totalitarian governments is an &quot;elaborate ideology, a set of ideas that gives meaning and direction to the whole society&quot;.
In mathematics, a Taylor series is a representation of a function as an infinite sum of terms that are calculated from the values of the function's derivatives at a single point.
TECO (; originally an acronym for [paper] Tape editor and corrector, but later Text editor and corrector, then Text editor character oriented) is a text editor originally developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the 1960s, after which it was modified by &quot;just about everybody&quot;.
In topology and related branches of mathematics, a topological space may be defined as a set of points, along with a set of neighbourhoods for each point, satisfying a set of axioms relating points and neighbourhoods. The definition of a topological space relies only upon set theory and is the most general notion of a mathematical space that allows for the definition of concepts such as continuity, connectedness, and convergence.
*
Transfinite induction is an extension of mathematical induction to well-ordered sets, for example to sets of ordinal numbers or cardinal numbers.
In thermodynamics, the triple point of a substance is the temperature and pressure at which the three phases (gas, liquid, and solid) of that substance coexist in thermodynamic equilibrium. For example, the triple point of mercury occurs at a temperature of −38.
Taxonomy () is the science of defining and naming groups of biological organisms on the basis of shared characteristics. Organisms are grouped together into taxa (singular: taxon) and these groups are given a taxonomic rank; groups of a given rank can be aggregated to form a super group of higher rank, thus creating a taxonomic hierarchy.
Tollund Man is a naturally mummified corpse of a man who lived during the 4th century BC, during the period characterised in Scandinavia as the Pre-Roman Iron Age. He was found in 1950 on the Jutland Peninsula in Denmark, buried in a peat bog which preserved his body.
is a genre of classical Japanese poetry and one of the major genres of Japanese literature.Ueda, Makoto.
thumb|Interior view of a turbomolecular pump
Theology is the critical study of the nature of the divine. It is taught as an academic discipline, typically in universities, seminaries and schools of divinity.
The Bay City Rollers are a Scottish pop band whose popularity was highest in the mid 1970s. The British Hit Singles &amp; Albums noted they were &quot;tartan teen sensations from Edinburgh&quot;, and were &quot;the first of many acts heralded as the 'biggest group since the Beatles' and one of the most screamed-at teeny-bopper acts of the 1970s&quot;.
The Christian doctrine of the Trinity (, from ) holds that God is three consubstantial personsThe Family Bible Encyclopedia (1972). p.
The Pogues were an Irish punk band formed in 1982 and fronted by Shane MacGowan. The band was founded in Kings Cross, London, as Pogue Mahone—the anglicisation of the Irish póg mo thóin, meaning &quot;kiss my arse&quot;.
* experimental pop
The Temple in Jerusalem or Holy Temple (, Modern: Beit HaMikdash, Tiberian: Beiṯ HamMiqdāš, Ashkenazi: Beis HaMikdosh; : Betä Mäqdäs) was any of a series of structures which were located on the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem, the current site of the Dome of the Rock and Al-Aqsa Mosque. These successive temples stood at this location and functioned as a site of ancient Israelite and later Jewish worship.
}}
Taiwanese cuisine (, or |p=Táiwān liàolǐ|poj=Tâi-oân liāu-lí|labels=no}}) has several variations. In addition to the following representative dishes from the people of Hoklo ethnicity (see Taiwanese people), there are also Aboriginal, Hakka, and local derivatives of Chinese cuisines such as beef noodle soup.
Thai cuisine (, , ) is the national cuisine of Thailand. Balance, detail, and variety are of paramount significance to Thai chefs.
}}
Tanach may refer to
The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is one of the main protocols of the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol (IP).
The Union Cycliste Internationale, responsible for the international cycling, confirmed this verdict on 22 October 2012.|group=n|name=armstrong}}
The Alhambra (; ;  , Al-Ḥamrā, lit. &quot;The Red One&quot;),The &quot;Al-&quot; in &quot;Alhambra&quot; means &quot;the&quot; in Arabic, but this is ignored in general usage in both English and Spanish, where the name is normally given the definite article, trans.
Theory of value is an ambiguous term, and may refer to:
}}
A trans-Neptunian object (TNO, also written transneptunian object) is any minor planet in the Solar System that orbits the Sun at a greater average distance (semi-major axis) than Neptune, 30 astronomical units (AU). Twelve minor planets is excluded from the count because it has an observation arc of only 76 days and hence its semi-major axis is not securely known.
The Theogony (, Theogonía, , i.e.
The United States of America is a federal republic with separate federal, state, and local government(s). Taxes are imposed in the United States at each of these levels.
In topology and related branches of mathematics, Tychonoff spaces and completely regular spaces are kinds of topological spaces.
A tattoo is a form of body modification where a design is made by inserting ink, dyes and pigments, either indelible or temporary, into the dermis layer of the skin to change the pigment. Tattoos fall into three broad categories: purely decorative (with no specific meaning); symbolic (with a specific meaning pertinent to the wearer); pictorial (a depiction of a specific person or item).
thumb|250px|right|Plaque commemorating [[Banbury mutiny|three Levellers shot by Oliver Cromwell in Burford.]]
The Diggers are a Scottish post-Britpop powerpop band, with a 1997 debut album, Mount Everest.
Tallage or talliage (from the French tailler, i.e.
This is a glossary of some terms used in the branch of mathematics known as topology. Although there is no absolute distinction between different areas of topology, the focus here is on general topology.
The Yellow Kid was the name of a lead American comic strip character that ran from 1895 to 1898 in Joseph Pulitzer's New York World, and later William Randolph Hearst's New York Journal. Created and drawn by Richard F.
The Little Bears was an American comic strip created by Jimmy Swinnerton, which has a place in the history of comics as probably the first American strip with recurring characters – the titular bears. The feature debuted in 1892 in the San Francisco Examiner and ran through 1896.
Týr (;Merriam Webster Online Dictionary: Tyr Old Norse: Týr ) is a Germanic god associated with law and heroic glory in Norse mythology, portrayed as one-handed. Corresponding names in other Germanic languages are Gothic Teiws, Old English Tīw and Old High German Ziu and Cyo, all from Proto-Germanic *.
The Sealed Knot was a secret Royalist association which plotted for the Restoration of the Monarchy during the English Interregnum.  The group was commissioned by King Charles II between November 1653 and February 1654 from his exile in Paris for the purpose of coordinating underground Royalist activity in England and preparing for a general uprising against the Protectorate.
* Further decentralization of the Holy Roman Empire
A talking head is a television pundit.
Tribunus, in English tribune, was the title of various elected officials in Ancient Rome.  The two most important were the tribunes of the plebs and the military tribunes.
Track or Tracks may refer to:
Tocantins may refer to he following :
A train is a form of rail transport consisting of a series of connected vehicles that usually runs along a rail track to transport cargo or passengers. Motive power is provided by a separate locomotive or individual motors in self-propelled multiple units.
Tambo may refer to:
thumb|right|350px|Typical boogie woogie bassline on twelve-bar blues progression in C, chord [[root (chord)|roots in red. ]]
Trimalchio is a character in the 1st century AD Roman work of fiction Satyricon by Petronius. He plays a part only in the section titled &quot;Cena Trimalchionis&quot; (The Banquet of Trimalchio, often translated as &quot;Dinner With Trimalchio&quot;).
The Tube may refer to:
In geometry, a tetrahedron (plural: tetrahedra or tetrahedrons), also known as a triangular pyramid, is a polyhedron composed of four triangular faces, six straight edges, and four vertex corners. The tetrahedron is the simplest of all the ordinary convex polyhedra and the only one that has fewer than 5 faces.
Track cycling is a bicycle racing sport usually held on specially built banked tracks or velodromes (but many events are held at older velodromes where the track banking is relatively shallow) using track bicycles.
The individual pursuit is a track cycling event where two cyclists begin the race from a stationary position on opposite sides of the track.
The team pursuit is a track cycling event similar to the individual pursuit, except that two teams, each of up to four riders, compete, starting on opposite sides of the velodrome.
In the track time trial, a track cycling event, cyclists compete individually against the clock to record the fastest time over the specified distance from a standing start.
thumb|right|250px|Points race at [[Home Depot Center, Carson, California.]]
thumb|right|240px|One racer propels his partner like a slingshot during a madison race.
The sprint or match sprint is a track cycling event involving between two and four riders, though it is usually run as a one-on-one match race between opponents who, unlike in the individual pursuit, start next to each other.
Kirin}}
In computability theory, a system of data-manipulation rules (such as a computer's instruction set, a programming language, or a cellular automaton) is said to be Turing complete or computationally universal if it can be used to simulate any Turing machine. The concept is named after English mathematician and computer scientist Alan Turing.
The Roman historian and senator Tacitus referred to Christ, his execution by Pontius Pilate, and the existence of early Christians in Rome in one page of his final work, Annals (written ca. AD 116), [Annals (Tacitus)/Book 15#44|book 15, chapter 44].
The Fantasy Trip (TFT) is a role-playing game that was designed by Steve Jackson and was published by Metagaming Concepts.
Terrorism, in its broadest sense, describes the use of intentionally indiscriminate violence as a means to create terror, or fear, in order to achieve a political, religious or ideological aim. It is used in this regard primarily to refer to violence against peacetime targets or in war against non-combatants.
Sir Thomas Malory (c. 1415-18 – 14 March 1471) was an English writer, the author or compiler of Le Morte d'Arthur.
}}
thumb|right|200px|A picture of [[Earth and the Moon from Mars. The presence of the moon (which has about 1/81 the mass of Earth), is slowing Earth's rotation and extending the day by about 2 milliseconds every 100 years.
A transposable element (TE or transposon) is a DNA sequence that can change its position within a genome, sometimes creating or reversing mutations and altering the cell's genetic identity and genome size. Transposition often results in duplication of the TE.
;
A triangle is a polygon with three edges and three vertices. It is one of the basic shapes in geometry.
The Torino Scale is a method for categorizing the impact hazard associated with near-Earth objects (NEOs) such as asteroids and comets.
The terabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. The prefix tera represents the fourth power of 1000, and means 1012 in the International System of Units (SI), and therefore one terabyte is one trillion (short scale) bytes.
,genitive
,genitive
,genitive
,genitive
thumb|[[Shield of the Trinity representation of the trivium]]
The Last Supper is the final meal that, in the Gospel accounts, Jesus shared with his Apostles in Jerusalem before his crucifixion.&quot;Last Supper.
of forest
The Terrorist () is an Indian Tamil film directed by Santosh Sivan. The film portrays a period in the life of a 19-year-old woman, Malli (Ayesha Dharker), sent to assassinate a leader in South Asia through a suicide bombing.
A tool is any physical item that can be used to achieve a goal, especially if the item is not consumed in the process.  Tools that are used in particular fields or activities may have different designations such as &quot;instrument&quot;, &quot;utensil&quot;, &quot;implement&quot;, &quot;machine&quot;, &quot;device,&quot; or &quot;apparatus&quot;.
Nyt}}
In physical geography, tundra is a type of biome where the tree growth is hindered by low temperatures and short growing seasons. The term tundra comes through Russian тундра (tûndra) from the Kildin Sami word tūndâr &quot;uplands&quot;, &quot;treeless mountain tract&quot;.
&quot;Take Me Out to the Ball Game&quot; is a 1908 Tin Pan Alley song by Jack Norworth and Albert Von Tilzer which has become the unofficial anthem of North American baseball, although neither of its authors had attended a game prior to writing the song. The song's chorus is traditionally sung during the middle of the seventh inning of a baseball game.
Lisa Brosious Beamer (born April 10, 1969) is the widow of Todd Beamer, a victim of the United Flight 93 crash as part of the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States. She is a 1991 graduate of Wheaton College; she gave the 2011 commencement address at Wheaton.
(1995)
The Computer Contradictionary is a non-fiction book by Stan Kelly-Bootle that compiles a satirical list of definitions of computer industry terms.  It is an example of &quot;cynical lexicography&quot; in the tradition of Ambrose Bierce's The Devil's Dictionary.
TRN may refer to:
The Great Divorce is a theological dream vision by C. S.
Temporomandibular joint dysfunction (TMD, TMJD) is an umbrella term covering pain and dysfunction of the muscles of mastication (the muscles that move the jaw) and the temporomandibular joints (the joints which connect the mandible to the skull). The most important feature is pain, followed by restricted mandibular movement, and noises from the temporomandibular joints (TMJ) during jaw movement.
The Screwtape Letters is a Christian apologetic novel by C. S.
The concept of a tree of life is a widespread mytheme or archetype in the world's mythologies, related to the concept of sacred tree more generally,Giovino, Mariana (2007). The Assyrian Sacred Tree: A History of Interpretations, page 129.
Technocracy is a form of government by technicians; specifically: management of society by technical experts.
Tales of the Reaching Moon was a British fanzine dedicated to the fantasy world of Glorantha and producing material for fantasy role-playing games based there. The editor, David Hall, published 20 issues from 1989 to 2002 (2/yr until 1994, then annually).
Tides are the rise and fall of sea levels caused by the combined effects of the gravitational forces exerted by the Moon and the Sun and the rotation of Earth.
The tidal force is a force that is the secondary effect of the force of gravity; it is responsible for the phenomenon of tides. It arises because the gravitational force exerted by one body on another is not constant across it: the nearest side is attracted more strongly than the farthest side.
The theremin (; originally known as the ætherphone/etherphone, thereminophoneThe London Mercury Vol.XVII No.
}}
The teleological or physico-theological argument, also known as the argument from design, or intelligent design argument is an argument for the existence of God or, more generally, for an intelligent creator &quot;based on perceived evidence of deliberate design in the natural or physical world&quot;.Francisco J.
A tram (also tramcar; and in North America streetcar, trolley or trolley car) is a rail vehicle which runs on tracks along public urban streets, and also sometimes on a segregated right of way. The lines or networks operated by tramcars are called tramways.
The classical unities, Aristotelian unities, or three unities are rules for drama derived from a passage in Aristotle's Poetics. In their neoclassical form they are as follows:
Tlaloc () was part of the pantheon of gods in Aztec religion. As supreme god of the rain, Tlaloc was also by extension a god of earthly fertility and of water.
The Titius–Bode law (sometimes termed just Bode's law) is a hypothesis that the bodies in some orbital systems, including the Sun's, orbit at semi-major axes in a function of planetary sequence. The formula suggests that, extending outward, each planet would be approximately twice as far from the Sun as the one before.
A theory is a contemplative and rational type of abstract or generalizing thinking, or the results of such thinking. Depending on the context, the results might, for example, include generalized explanations of how nature works.
Tanker may refer to:
&quot;The Balloon-Hoax&quot; is the title used in collections and anthologies of a newspaper article written by Edgar Allan Poe, first published in 1844. Originally presented as a true story, it detailed European Monck Mason's trip across the Atlantic Ocean in only three days in a gas balloon.
Publius Terentius Afer (; c. 195/185 – c.
&quot;The Pit and the Pendulum&quot; is a short story written by Edgar Allan Poe and first published in 1842 in the literary annual The Gift: A Christmas and New Year's Present for 1843.  The story is about the torments endured by a prisoner of the Spanish Inquisition, though Poe skews historical facts.
The Enlightenment (also known as the Age of Enlightenment or the Age of Reason; in ; and in , 'Enlightenment') was an intellectual and philosophical movement which dominated the world of ideas in Europe during the 18th century, The Century of Philosophy. The Enlightenment included a range of ideas centered on reason as the primary source of authority and legitimacy, and came to advance ideals like liberty, progress, tolerance, fraternity, constitutional government, and separation of church and state.
The Hunt for Red October is Tom Clancy's 1984 debut novel. The story follows a CIA analyst who leads a group of US Navy officers to take possession of a cutting-edge Soviet nuclear submarine from 26 defecting Soviet officers, and the intertwined adventures of Soviet submarine captain Marko Aleksandrovich Ramius and Jack Ryan, a Marine turned CIA analyst.
The Cardinal of the Kremlin is a novel by Tom Clancy, featuring his character Jack Ryan. It is a sequel to The Hunt for Red October, based on the development of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) and its Soviet equivalent, covering themes including intelligence gathering and counterintelligence, political intrigue, and guerrilla warfare in Afghanistan.
Debt of Honor (1994) is a thriller novel by Tom Clancy. It is a continuation of the series featuring his character Jack Ryan.
)
}}
.&quot;The troubles were over, but the killing continued.
Theoretical ecology is the scientific discipline devoted to the study of ecological systems using theoretical methods such as simple conceptual models, mathematical models, computational simulations, and advanced data analysis. Effective models improve understanding of the natural world by revealing how the dynamics of species populations are often based on fundamental biological conditions and processes.
Two-step or two step may refer to:
}}
In Christian theology, traducianism is a doctrine about the origin of the soul (or synonymously, &quot;spirit&quot;), holding that this immaterial aspect is transmitted through natural generation along with the body, the material aspect of human beings. That is, an individual's soul is derived from the souls of the individual's parents.
Transformation may refer to:
Truso, situated on Lake Drużno, was an Old Prussian (Pomesanian) town near the Baltic Sea just east of the Vistula River. It was one of the trading posts on the Amber Road, and is thought to be the antecedent of the city of Elbląg (Elbing).
The tragedy of the commons is an economic theory of a situation within a shared-resource system where individual users acting independently according to their own self-interest behave contrary to the common good of all users by depleting or spoiling that resource through their collective action. The concept and name originate in an essay written in 1833  by the Victorian economist William Forster Lloyd, who used a hypothetical example of the effects of unregulated grazing on common land (then colloquially called &quot;the commons&quot;) in the British Isles.
Tape bias is the term for two techniques, AC bias and DC bias, that improve the fidelity of analogue tape recorders.  DC bias is the addition of a direct current to the audio signal that is being recorded.
In computer science, a tree is a widely used abstract data type (ADT)—or data structure implementing this ADT—that simulates a hierarchical tree structure, with a root value and subtrees of children with a parent node, represented as a set of linked nodes.
In mathematics, the tangent space of a manifold facilitates the generalization of vectors from affine spaces to general manifolds, since in the latter case, one cannot simply subtract two points to obtain a vector that gives the displacement of the one point from the other.
Tao or Dao (, ; from
troff  is the major component of a document processing system developed by AT&amp;T Corporation for the Unix operating system.
Madison, Wisconsin, U.S.
In discrete mathematics, tree rotation is an operation on a binary tree that changes the structure without interfering with the order of the elements. A tree rotation moves one node up in the tree and one node down.
S&amp;P 400 ComponentClass B Common Stock: unlisted
Based in Tennessee since 1997
The term tetrarchy (from the , tetrarchia, &quot;leadership of four [people]&quot;) describes any form of government where power is divided among four individuals, but in modern usage usually refers to the system instituted by Roman Emperor Diocletian in 293, marking the end of the Crisis of the Third Century and the recovery of the Roman Empire. This tetrarchy lasted until c.
Theism is broadly defined as the belief in the existence of a deity or multiple deities.&quot;theism,&quot; Dictionary.
In mathematics, the tensor product V\otimes W of two vector spaces V and W (over the same field) is itself a vector space, together with an operation of bilinear composition, denoted by \otimes, from ordered pairs in the Cartesian product V\times W into V\otimes W, in a way that generalizes the outer product.  The tensor product of V and W is the vector space generated by the symbols v\otimes w, with v\in V and w\in W, in which the relations of bilinearity are imposed for the product operation \otimes, and no other relations are assumed to hold.
Tiramisu (from Italian, spelled tiramisù , meaning &quot;pick me up&quot;, &quot;cheer me up&quot; or &quot;lift me up&quot;) is a popular coffee-flavoured Italian custard dessert. It is made of ladyfingers dipped in coffee, layered with a whipped mixture of eggs, sugar, and mascarpone cheese, flavoured with cocoa.
A turbine (from the Latin turbo, a vortex, related to the Greek , tyrbē, meaning &quot;turbulence&quot;). is a rotary mechanical device that extracts energy from a fluid flow and converts it into useful work.
The Toledo War (1835–36), also known as the Michigan–Ohio War, was an almost bloodless boundary dispute between the U.S.
A towpath is a road or trail on the bank of a river, canal, or other inland waterway. The purpose of a towpath is to allow a land vehicle, beasts of burden, or a team of human pullers to tow a boat, often a barge.
Texas Rangers}}
Tex-Mex (from Texan and Mexican) is a fusion of United States cuisine and Mexican cuisines, deriving from the culinary creations of Tejanos. It has spread from border states such as Texas and others in the Southwestern United States to the rest of the country as well as Canada.
thumb|A child trick-or-treating
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) was a court-like restorative justiceSuffolk University, College of Arts &amp; Sciences, Center for Restorative Justice, http://www.suffolk.
thumbnail|250px|right|Pine Pattern Collar in Tatting
France
The Tesla turbine is a bladeless centripetal flow turbine patented by Nikola Tesla in 1913.  It is referred to as a bladeless turbine.
Transport in Afghanistan is limited and in the developing stage. Much of the nation's road network was built during the 1960s but left to ruin during the 1980s and 90's wars.
psychobilly, garage punk, garage rock, surf punk
–, -, -
Theocracy is a form of government in which a deity is the source from which all authority derives. The Oxford English Dictionary has this definition:
}}
thumb|right|A chick hatching from an egg
Center}}
A turbocharger, or colloquially turbo, is a turbine-driven forced induction device that increases an internal combustion engine's efficiency and power output by forcing extra air into the combustion chamber.  This improvement over a naturally aspirated engine's power output is due to the fact that the compressor can force more air—and proportionately more fuel—into the combustion chamber than atmospheric pressure (and for that matter, ram air intakes) alone.
A time zone is a region of the globe that observes a uniform standard time for legal, commercial, and social purposes. Time zones tend to follow the boundaries of countries and their subdivisions because it is convenient for areas in close commercial or other communication to keep the same time.
border
The Treaty of Verdun, signed in August 843, was the first of the treaties that divided the Carolingian Empire into three kingdoms among the three surviving sons of Louis the Pious, who was the son of Charlemagne. The treaty, signed in Verdun-sur-Meuse, ended the three-year Carolingian Civil War.
}}
A transformer is an electrical device that transfers electrical energy between two or more circuits through electromagnetic induction. A varying current in one coil of the transformer produces a varying magnetic field, which in turn induces a voltage in a second coil.
Transubstantiation (in Latin, transsubstantiatio, in Greek μετουσίωσις metousiosis) is, according to the teachings of the Catholic Church, the change of substance by which the bread and wine offered in the sacrifice of the sacrament of the Eucharist during the Mass, become, in reality, the body and blood of Jesus Christ.
Transcription may refer to:
&quot;Thunderbird and Whale&quot; is an indigenous myth belonging to the mythological traditions of a number of tribes from the Pacific Northwest.
Tomato sauce (also known as Neapolitan sauce, and referred to in Italy as Salsa di pomodoro) refers to any of a very large number of sauces made primarily from tomatoes, usually to be served as part of a dish (rather than as a condiment). Tomato sauces are common for meat and vegetables, but they are perhaps best known as sauces for pasta dishes.
Triage ( or //) is the process of determining the priority of patients' treatments based on the severity of their condition. This rations patient treatment efficiently when resources are insufficient for all to be treated immediately.
A transpositional pun is a complicated pun format with two aspects. It involves transposing the words in a well-known phrase or saying to get a daffynition-like clever redefinition of a well-known word unrelated to the original phrase.
In general terms, throughput is the maximum rate of production or the maximum rate at which something can be processed.
TCA may refer to:
Trekker can refer to:
thumb|110px|TiVo's [[logo, a smiling television set]]
TDMA may refer to:
}}
Trenton may refer to:
thumb|right|A ball-and-stick model of syndiotactic [[polypropylene.]]
Titan may refer to:
The Sophia of Jesus Christ is one of many Gnostic tractates from the Nag Hammadi codices, discovered in Egypt in 1945. The Coptic manuscript itself has been dated to the 4th century; however, it is complemented by a few fragments in Greek dating from the 3rd century, implying an earlier date.
The Tuath(a) Dé Danann (, usually translated as &quot;people(s)/tribe(s) of the goddess Dana or Danu&quot;), also known by the earlier name Tuath Dé (&quot;tribe of the gods&quot;),Koch, John T. Celtic Culture: A Historical Encyclopedia.
In computing, time-sharing is the sharing of a computing resource among many users by means of multiprogramming and multi-tasking at the same time.DEC TIMESHARING (1965), by Peter Clark, The DEC Professional, VOLUME 1, Number 1
The tuba ( or ;pronunciation of tuba in the Oxford Learner's Dictionaries ) is the largest and lowest-pitched musical instrument in the brass family. Like all brass instruments, sound is produced by moving air past the lips, causing them to vibrate or &quot;buzz&quot; into a large cupped mouthpiece.
Timothy (Greek: ; Timótheos, meaning &quot;honouring God&quot;  Meaning of Timothy  Origin of Timothy at MFnames.com|last=Katsev|first=Igor|website=www.
The Third Epistle of John, often referred to as Third John and written 3 John, is the antepenultimate book of the New Testament and attributed to John the Evangelist, traditionally thought to be the author of the Gospel of John and the other two epistles of John. The Third Epistle of John is a private letter composed to a man named Gaius, recommending to him a group of Christians led by Demetrius, which had come to preach the gospel in the area where Gaius lived.
–1977, 1983–1999
In musical terminology, tempo  (&quot;time&quot; in Italian; plural: tempi ) is the speed or pace of a given piece.
Tunnel in the Sky is a juvenile science fiction novel  by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, published in 1955 by Scribner's as one of the Heinlein juveniles.
The Jupiter trojans, commonly called Trojan asteroids or just Trojans, are a large group of asteroids that share the planet Jupiter's orbit around the Sun.  They are named for heroes in the ancient Greek tales of the Trojan War.
In mathematics, a theorem is a statement that has been proved on the basis of previously established statements, such as other theorems, and generally accepted statements, such as axioms. A theorem is a logical consequence of the axioms.
}}
A Tory () holds a political philosophy (Toryism) based on a British version of traditionalism and conservatism, which upholds the supremacy of social order as it has evolved throughout history. The Tory ethos has been summed up with the phrase &quot;God, King and Country&quot;.
A tabloid is a newspaper with a compact page size smaller than broadsheet. A tabloid is defined as &quot;roughly &quot; and commonly &quot;half the size of a broadsheet&quot;, although there is no standard size for this newspaper format.
Tibetan Buddhism is the body of Buddhist doctrine and institutions characteristic of Tibet, the regions surrounding the Himalayas and much of Central Asia. It derives from the latest stages of Indian Buddhism and preserves &quot;the Tantric status quo of eighth-century India.
A thermocouple is an electrical device consisting of two dissimilar electrical conductors forming electrical junctions at differing temperatures. A thermocouple produces a temperature-dependent voltage as a result of the thermoelectric effect, and this voltage can be interpreted to measure temperature.
A thermistor is a type of resistor whose resistance is dependent on temperature, more so than in standard resistors. The word is a portmanteau of thermal and resistor.
thumb|[[Mercury thermometer for measurement of room temperature. The application of mercury (1714) and Fahrenheit scale (1724) for liquid-in-glass thermometers ushered in a new era of accuracy and precision in thermometry.
Theravāda (Pali, literally &quot;school of the elder monks&quot;) is a branch of Buddhism that uses the Buddha's teaching preserved in the Pāli Canon as its doctrinal core. The Pali canon is the only complete Buddhist canon which survives in a classical Indic Language, Pali, which serves as the sacred language and lingua franca of Theravada Buddhism.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to theatre:
Third law may refer to:
A phenotypic trait, or simply trait, is a distinct variant of a phenotypic characteristic of an organism; it may be either inherited or  determined environmentally, but typically occurs as a combination of the two.Lawrence, Eleanor (2005) Henderson's Dictionary of Biology.
}}
There Is No Cabal is a catchphrase used on Usenet. Its common abbreviation, TINC, is used humorously to suggest that people should lighten up and not see a conspiracy around every corner.
Triple is used in several contexts to mean &quot;threefold&quot; or a &quot;treble&quot;:
Terrestrial Time (TT) is a modern astronomical time standard defined by the International Astronomical Union, primarily for time-measurements of astronomical observations made from the surface of Earth.The 1991 definition refers to the scale agreeing with the SI second &quot;on the geoid&quot;, i.
Taking Children Seriously (T.C.
Protein tertiary structure is the three dimensional shape of a protein. The tertiary structure will have a single polypeptide chain &quot;backbone&quot; with one or more protein secondary structures, the protein domains.
(aged 57)
thumb|Examples of low power triodes from 1918 (left) to miniature tubes of the 1960s (right)
Flowerpot Men}}
A turboprop engine is a turbine engine that drives an aircraft propeller.&quot;Turboprop&quot;, Pilot's Handbook of Aeronautical Knowledge, Federal Aviation Administration, 2009.
thumb|Tomaso Albinoni
A trust is a three-party fiduciary relationship in which the first party, the trustor or settlor, transfers (&quot;settles&quot;) a property (often but not necessarily a sum of money) upon the second party (the trustee) for the benefit of the third party, the beneficiary. At least two of the three parties must be different individuals or business entities; that is, one person can be trustor and trustee, and another can be the beneficiary or one can be trustor and beneficiary, and another be trustee or one person can be trustor and another can be trustee and beneficiary.
In music, a tone row or note row (), also series and set,George Perle, Serial Composition and Atonality: An Introduction to the Music of Schoenberg, Berg, and Webern, fourth Edition (Berkeley, Los Angeles, and London: University of California Press, 1977): 3. .
Triatoma protracta is a species of insect in the family Reduviidae. It is known commonly as the western bloodsucking conenose.
Time transfer is a scheme where multiple sites share a precise reference time.  Time transfer solves problems such as astronomical observatories correlating observed flashes or other phenomena with each other, as well as cell phone towers coordinating handoffs as a phone moves from one cell to another.
thumb|248px|IV-V-I progression in C
Trakehner is a light warmblood breed of horse, originally developed at the East Prussian state stud farm in the town of Trakehnen from which the breed takes its name.  The state stud (:de:Hauptgestüt Trakehnen) was established in 1731 and operated until 1944, when the fighting of World War II led to the annexing of East Prussia by Russia, and the town containing the stud renamed as Yasnaya Polyana.
Tempera (), also known as egg tempera, is a permanent, fast-drying painting medium consisting of colored pigments mixed with a water-soluble binder medium (usually a glutinous material such as egg yolk or some other size). Tempera also refers to the paintings done in this medium.
Theological virtues are virtues associated in Christian theology and philosophy with salvation resulting from the grace of God.  Virtues are traits or qualities which dispose one to conduct oneself in a morally good manner.
PNS Tipu Sultan}}
Telnet is a protocol used on the Internet or local area networks to provide a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection. User data is interspersed in-band with Telnet control information in an 8-bit byte oriented data connection over the  Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).
border
The Third Council of the Lateran met in March 1179 as the eleventh ecumenical council. Pope Alexander III presided and 302 bishops attended.
The Third Culture is a 1995 book by John Brockman which discusses the work of several well-known scientists who are directly communicating their new, sometimes provocative, ideas to the general public. John Brockman has continued the themes of 'The Third Culture' in the website of the Edge Foundation, where leading scientists and thinkers contribute their thoughts in plain English.
The Importance of Being Earnest, A Trivial Comedy for Serious People is a play by Oscar Wilde. First performed on 14 February 1895 at the St James's Theatre in London, it is a farcical comedy in which the protagonists maintain fictitious personæ to escape burdensome social obligations.
The Analogy of the Divided Line () is presented by the Greek philosopher Plato in the  Republic (509d–511e). It is written as a dialogue between Glaucon and Socrates, in which the latter further elaborates upon the immediately preceding Analogy of the Sun at the former's request.
Themistocles (;   Themistoklẽs; &quot;Glory of the Law&quot;; c. 524–459 BC) was an Athenian politician and general.
TCP may refer to:
The Canadian two-dollar coin, commonly called the toonie, is the most valuable of the frequently used Canadian coins.  It was introduced on February 19, 1996, by Public Works minister Diane Marleau.
The Problem of Pain is a 1940 book on the problem of evil by C. S.
A teaspoon is an item of cutlery, a measuring instrument, of approximately 5ml, or a unit of measurement of volume (usually abbreviated tsp.).
A tablespoon is a large spoon used for serving or eating. In many English-speaking regions, the term now refers to a large spoon used for serving,The Oxford English Dictionary Third edition, December 2008, entry at tablespoon however, in some regions, including parts of Canada, it is the largest type of spoon used for eating.
–, –, –present
Masaccio (; December 21, 1401 – summer 1428), born Tommaso di Ser Giovanni di Simone, was the first great Italian painter of the Quattrocento period of the Italian Renaissance. According to Vasari, Masaccio was the best painter of his generation because of his skill at imitating nature, recreating lifelike figures and movements as well as a convincing sense of three-dimensionality.
}}
Time management is the process of planning and exercising conscious control over the amount of time spent on specific activities - especially to increase effectiveness, efficiency or productivity.
__NOTOC__
Trinitarian most commonly refers to ideas or things pertaining to the Trinity.
The Tupolev Tu-144 (; NATO reporting name: Charger) is a retired jet airliner and  commercial supersonic transport aircraft (SST). It is one of only two SSTs to enter commercial service, the other being the Anglo-French Concorde.
Turing is a Pascal-like programming language developed in 1982 by Ric Holt and James Cordy, then of University of Toronto, Canada. Turing is a descendant of Euclid, Pascal and SP/k that features a clean syntax and precise machine-independent semantics.
A trackball is a pointing device consisting of a ball held by a socket containing sensors to detect a rotation of the ball about two axis—like an upside-down mouse with an exposed protruding ball. The user rolls the ball to position the on-screen pointer, using their thumb, fingers, or commonly the palm of the hand while using the fingertips to press the mouse buttons.
thumb|300px|[[Digital Data Storage|DDS tape drive. Above, from left  to right: DDS-4 tape (20 GB), 112m Data8 tape (2.
Trinidad is the principal island of Trinidad and Tobago.
A top-level domain (TLD) is one of the domains at the highest level in the hierarchical Domain Name System of the Internet. The top-level domain names are installed in the [[DNS root
(baptised)
million in South Africa (2011) million in Botswana
thumb|right|Nikolai Trubetzkoy, 1920s.
The Goodies are a trio of British comedians: Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden, and Bill Oddie. They wrote for and performed in their eponymous surreal Television comedy show during the 1970s and early 1980s, combining sketches and situation comedy.
The Divine Comedy ( ) is a long narrative poem by Dante Alighieri, begun c. 1308 and completed in 1320, a year before his death in 1321.
In engineering, a transfer function (also known as system functionBernd Girod, Rudolf Rabenstein, Alexander Stenger, Signals and systems, 2nd ed., Wiley, 2001,  p.
Twiglets are a wheat-based snack with a &quot;distinctive knobbly shape&quot; similar to that of a small twig. The taste of Twiglets derives from the yeast extract used in its coating, and has been compared to that of Marmite.
thumb|G is the group \mathbb{Z}/8\mathbb{Z}, the [[Integers modulo n|integers mod 8 under addition. The subgroup H contains only 0 and 4, and is isomorphic to \mathbb{Z}/2\mathbb{Z}.
Thresher may refer to:
The Taxil hoax was an 1890s hoax of exposure by Léo Taxil intended to mock not only Freemasonry but also the Catholic Church's opposition to it.
or |s=
The Trident missile is a submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) equipped with multiple independently targetable reentry vehicles (MIRV). Originally developed by Lockheed Missiles and Space Corporation, the missile is armed with thermonuclear warheads and is launched from nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines (SSBNs).
Tidal wave}}
Tethys or Tethis may refer to:
(75%)
A Tobin tax, suggested by Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences Laureate economist James Tobin, was originally defined as a tax on all spot conversions of one currency into another. Tobin's original tax was intended to put a penalty on short-term financial round-trip excursions into another currency.
The Torpoint Ferry is a car and pedestrian chain ferry, connecting the A374 road which crosses the Hamoaze, a stretch of water at the mouth of the River Tamar, between Devonport in Plymouth and Torpoint in Cornwall. The service was established in 1791 and chain ferry operations were introduced by James Meadows Rendel in 1832.
The tarot (; first known as trionfi and later as tarocchi, tarock, and others) is a pack of playing cards, used from the mid-15th century in various parts of Europe to play games such as Italian tarocchini and French tarot. In the late 18th century, it began to be used for divination in the form of tarotology/cartomancy.
Tissue may refer to:
The tonne () (non-preferred SI derived unit; SI symbol: t), commonly referred to as the metric ton in the United States, is a non-SI metric unit of mass equal to 1,000 kilograms;Weights and Measures Act 1985. National Archives (London), 2014.
The Triassic–Jurassic extinction event marks the boundary between the Triassic and Jurassic periods, ,
thumb|right|250px|Tuning fork on resonance box, by Max Kohl, Chemnitz, Germany
A trireme (; derived from Latin: trirēmisfrom tri- &quot;three&quot; + rēmus &quot;oar&quot;. &quot;with three banks of oars&quot;;  triērēs,from τρι- (tri-) &quot;three&quot; + ἐρέτης &quot;rower&quot; literally &quot;three-rower&quot;) was an ancient vessel and a type of galley that was used by the ancient maritime civilizations of the Mediterranean, especially the Phoenicians, ancient Greeks and Romans.
Thalassa may refer to:
Tertullian (), full name Quintus Septimius Florens Tertullianus, c. 155 – c.
–
A tumor suppressor gene, or antioncogene, is a gene that protects a cell from one step on the path to cancer. When this gene mutates to cause a loss or reduction in its function, the cell can progress to cancer, usually in combination with other genetic changes.
Great Britain
In mathematics, specifically in real analysis, the Bolzano–Weierstrass theorem, named after Bernard Bolzano and Karl Weierstrass, is a fundamental result about convergence in a finite-dimensional Euclidean space Rn.  The theorem states that
Tabula rasa () refers to the epistemological idea that individuals are born without built-in mental content and that therefore all knowledge comes from experience or perception. Proponents of tabula rasa generally disagree with the doctrine of innatism which holds that the mind is born already in possession of certain knowledge.
A  is a Japanese sword, akin to the jian Chinese sword. The word is used in the West to refer to a specific type of Japanese straight, double-edged sword used in antiquity.
}}
Template § Computing}}
526
The Randolph was a 664-ton ship-rigged merchant vessel constructed in 1849 in Sunderland. She was one of the First Four Ships to settle Christchurch, New Zealand (the other three were Cressy, Sir George Seymour and Charlotte Jane).
Terminator may refer to:
&quot;Truth serum&quot; is a colloquial name for any of a range of psychoactive drugs used in an effort to obtain information from subjects who are unable or unwilling to provide it otherwise. These include ethanol, scopolamine, 3-quinuclidinyl benzilate, midazolam, flunitrazepam, sodium thiopental, and amobarbital, among others.
The Tower of Babel (, Maḡdlā d-Bāḇēl; }}, Migdal Bāḇēl) is a Near Eastern account recorded in the Book of Genesis. It is an origin myth meant to explain why the world's peoples speak different languages.
(Block IV)
}}
A teleprinter (teletypewriter,  Teletype or TTY) is an electromechanical typewriter that can be used to send and receive typed messages from point to point and point-to-multipoint over various types of communications channels. They were adapted to provide a user interface to early mainframe computers and minicomputers, sending typed data to the computer and printing the response.
The travelling salesman problem  (TSP) asks the following question: &quot;Given a list of cities and the distances between each pair of cities, what is the shortest possible route that visits each city exactly once and returns to the origin city?&quot; It is an NP-hard problem in combinatorial optimization, important in operations research and theoretical computer science.
Tacs}}
Time-division multiple access (TDMA) is a channel access method for shared-medium networks. It allows several users to share the same frequency channel by dividing the signal into different time slots.
Theseus (;  ) was the mythical king and founder-hero of Athens. Like Perseus, Cadmus, or Heracles, Theseus battled and overcame foes that were identified with an archaic religious and social order: “This was a major cultural transition, like the making of the new Olympia by Hercules” (Ruck &amp; Staples, p.
Tax law is an area of legal study dealing with the constitutional, common-law, statutory, tax treaty, and regulatory rules that constitute the law applicable to taxation.
Tadoma is a method of communication used by deafblind  individuals, in which the deafblind person places their thumb on the speaker's lips and their fingers along the jawline. The middle three fingers often fall along the speaker's cheeks with the little finger picking up the vibrations of the speaker's throat.
)
Titration, also known as titrimetry,
&quot;Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star&quot; is a popular English lullaby. The lyrics are from an early 19th-century English poem by Jane Taylor, &quot;The Star&quot;.
Traffic engineering can mean:
Tocharian,  also spelled Tokharian ( or ), is an extinct branch of the Indo-European language family. It is known from manuscripts dating from the 6th to the 8th century AD, which were found in oasis cities on the northern edge of the Tarim Basin (now part of Xinjiang in northwest China).
thumb|right|250px|A trie for keys &quot;A&quot;,&quot;to&quot;, &quot;tea&quot;, &quot;ted&quot;, &quot;ten&quot;, &quot;i&quot;, &quot;in&quot;, and &quot;inn&quot;.
thumb|alt=Title page from The Age of Reason|Title page from the first English edition of Part I
The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life is a 1994 book by psychologist Richard J. Herrnstein and political scientist Charles Murray, in which the authors argue that human intelligence is substantially influenced by both inherited and environmental factors and is a better predictor of many personal dynamics, including financial income, job performance, birth out of wedlock, and involvement in crime than are an individual's parental socioeconomic status.
The House of Tudor was an English royal house of Welsh origin,http://www.britannica.
* 1846
In geometry, the truncated icosahedron is an Archimedean solid, one of 13 convex isogonal nonprismatic solids whose faces are two or more types of regular polygons.
The Mismeasure of Man is a 1981 book by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.Gould, S.
right|thumb|250px|A member of the Taliban's [[Mutaween#Other groups|religious police beating an Afghan woman in Kabul on August 26, 2001. The footage, filmed by the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan, can be seen here Emirate of Afghanistan|While in power] in Afghanistan, the Taliban became notorious internationally mostly for their apparent sexism and misogyny.
Steal}}
In law, treason is the crime that covers some of the more extreme acts against one's nation or sovereign.http://www.
{|
The three-age system is the categorization of history into time periods divisible by three; for example, the Stone Age, Bronze Age, and Iron Age, although it also refers to other tripartite divisions of historic time periods. In history, archaeology and physical anthropology, the three-age system is a methodological concept adopted during the 19th century by which artifacts and events of late prehistory and early history could be ordered into a recognizable chronology.
A  tachyon  or tachyonic particle is a hypothetical particle that always moves faster than light.  Most physicists believe that faster-than-light particles cannot exist because they are not consistent with the known laws of physics.
Tora Bora (, Black Cave), known locally as Spīn Ghar (, White Mountain), is a cave complex, part of the White Mountains (Safēd Kōh) of eastern Afghanistan. It is situated in the Pachir Aw Agam District of Nangarhar, approximately  west of the Khyber Pass and  north of the border of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas in Pakistan.
Taiga (; ; from Turkic&quot;taiga.&quot; Dictionary.
{|
Tizocic  or Tizocicatzin  usually known in English as Tizoc, was the seventh tlatoani of Tenochtitlan.
Dr. Tim M.
The Type IX U-boat was designed by Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine in 1935 and 1936 as a large ocean-going submarine for sustained operations far from the home support facilities. Type IX boats were briefly used for patrols off the eastern United States in an attempt to disrupt the stream of troops and supplies bound for Europe.
The International Obfuscated C Code Contest (abbreviated IOCCC) is a computer programming contest for the most creatively obfuscated C code. Held annually in the years 1984-1996, 1998, 2000, 2001, 2004-2006, and then since 2011, it is described as &quot;celebrating [C's] syntactical opaqueness&quot;.
Territorial integrity is the principle under international law that nation-states should not attempt to promote secessionist movements or to promote border changes in other nation-states. Conversely it states that imposition by force of a border change is an act of aggression.
A Terran is an inhabitant of the planet Earth. The term Terran can be used as an adjective to describing any person, place, or thing originating from Earth.
A
*
The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering is a book on software engineering and project management by Fred Brooks, whose central theme is that &quot;adding manpower to a late software project makes it later&quot;. This idea is known as Brooks's law, and is presented along with the second-system effect and advocacy of prototyping.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is a philosophical novel by Oscar Wilde, first published complete in the July 1890 issue of Lippincott's Monthly Magazine.The Picture of Dorian Gray (Penguin Classics) – Introduction The magazine's editor feared the story was indecent, and without Wilde's knowledge, deleted roughly five hundred words before publication.
The ring of the Nibelungs may refer to different things.
Theme or themes may refer to:
A trilogy (from Greek τρι- tri-, &quot;three&quot; and -λογία -logia, &quot;discourse&quot;) is a set of three works of art that are connected, and that can be seen either as a single work or as three individual works. They are commonly found in literature, film, and video games, and are less common in other art forms.
Theophan the Recluse, also known as Theophan Zatvornik or Theophanes the Recluse (Russian: Феофа́н Затво́рник; January 10, 1815 – January 6, 1894) is a well-known saint in the Russian Orthodox Church.
The Art of Computer Programming (sometimes known by its initials TAOCP) is a comprehensive monograph written by Donald Knuth that covers many kinds of programming algorithms and their analysis.
A tapa (), in Spanish cuisine, is an appetizer, or snack. It may be cold (such as mixed olives and cheese) or hot (such as chopitos, which are battered, fried baby squid).
Spain
The Physiologus is a didactic Christian text written or compiled in Greek by an unknown author, in Alexandria; its composition has been traditionally dated to the 2nd century AD by readers who saw parallels with writings of Clement of Alexandria, who is asserted to have known the text, though Alan ScottAlan Scott, &quot;The Date of the Physiologus&quot; Vigiliae Christianae 52.4 (November 1998:430-441).
thumb|[[Lizard point, Cornwall|Lizard Point]]
Huckleberry Finn is a fictional character created by Mark Twain.
A tor, which is also known by geomorphologists as either a castle koppie or kopje, is a large, free-standing rock outcrop that rises abruptly from the surrounding smooth and gentle slopes of a rounded hill summit or ridge crest. In the South West of England, the term is commonly also used for the hills themselves – particularly the high points of Dartmoor in Devon and Bodmin Moor in Cornwall.
The name Treaty of Berlin is attached to several treaties:
thumb|right|222px|Edward Gibbon (1737–1794).
TRF may refer to:
}}
Osmotic pressure is the minimum pressure which needs to be applied to a solution to prevent the inward flow of water across a semipermeable membrane. It is also defined as the measure of the tendency of a solution to take in water by osmosis.
Twilight 2000 is a role-playing game set in the aftermath of World War III (the &quot;Twilight War&quot;). The premise is that the United States/NATO and the Soviet Union/Warsaw Pact have fought a lengthy conventional war, followed by a (limited) nuclear war with all its consequences.
In Australia, technical and further education or TAFE () institutions provide a wide range of predominantly vocational tertiary education courses, mostly qualifying courses under the National Training System/Australian Qualifications Framework/Australian Quality Training Framework. Fields covered include business, finance, hospitality, tourism, construction, engineering, visual arts, information technology and community work.
To whom did Brest belong in 1918? Argument among Ukraine, Belarus, and Germany.
Listed as Endangered (EN A2be+3e v3.1)
In Christian eschatology, the great tribulation (, thlipsis megalē) is a period mentioned by Jesus in the Olivet discourse as a sign that would occur in the time of the end.See Matthew 24, Mark 13, and Luke 21.
Tantra (Sanskrit: तन्त्र; literally &quot;loom, weave&quot;) denotes the esoteric traditions of Hinduism and Buddhism that co-developed most likely about the middle of 1st millennium CE. The term tantra, in the Indian traditions, also means any systematic broadly applicable &quot;text, theory, system, method, instrument, technique or practice&quot;.
A twelve-step program is a term applied to a number of spiritually based groups for recovery from compulsion], or other behavioral problems.
In topology, the Tietze extension theorem (also known as the Tietze–Urysohn–Brouwer extension theorem) states that continuous functions on a closed subset of a normal topological space can be extended to the entire space, preserving boundedness if necessary.
right|thumb|250px|The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck Collected Edition cover. Art by Don Rosa.
File:Glasgow 1877 by Don Rosa.jpg|thumb|right|329px|Glasgow 1877, Clan McDuck portrait by Don Rosa; left to right: Jake, Matilda, Downy, Fergus, Hortense, Scrooge (age 10), and Angus; wall portraits: Malcolm, Eider, Quackly, Roast, and Hugh (Clicking on a character will take you to their section.
Tessin may refer to:
Topaz. Mindat.
A thermobaric weapon is a type of explosive that utilizes oxygen from the surrounding air to generate an intense, high-temperature explosion, and in practice the blast wave typically produced by such a weapon is of a significantly longer duration than that produced by a conventional condensed explosive. The fuel-air bomb is one of the best-known types of thermobaric weapons.
Turkic may refer to:
.
The Tom Collins is a Collins cocktail made from gin, lemon juice, sugar, and carbonated water. First memorialized in writing in 1876 by Jerry Thomas, &quot;the father of American mixology&quot;, this &quot;gin and sparkling lemonade&quot; drink is typically served in a Collins glass over ice.
The modern torpedo is a self-propelled weapon with an explosive warhead, launched above or below the water surface, propelled underwater towards a target, and designed to detonate either on contact with its target or in proximity to it.
Turkish cuisine (Turkish: Türk mutfağı) is largely the continuation of Ottoman cuisine, which in turn borrowed many elements from Circassian, Central Asian, Caucasian, Middle Eastern, Balkan and Greek cuisines.Nur İlkin -i Taste of Turkish cuisine Turkish cuisine has in turn influenced those and other neighbouring cuisines, including those of Southeast Europe
Mindat tourmaline group Accessed September 12, 2005. This website details specifically and clearly how the complicated chemical formula is structured.
In physics, the twin paradox is a thought experiment in special relativity involving identical twins, one of whom makes a journey into space in a high-speed rocket and returns home to find that the twin who remained on Earth has aged more. This result appears puzzling because each twin sees the other twin as moving, and so, according to an incorrect Extract of page 23 Extract of page 21 and naive Extract of page 541 Extract of page 176 application of time dilation and the principle of relativity, each should paradoxically find the other to have aged less.
This article contains summaries and commentaries of the 100 stories within Giovanni Boccaccio's The Decameron.
[der 'Cité des Dames' 002.jpg|thumb|400px|right|Illustration from The Book of the City of Ladies]
Tolerance or toleration is the state of tolerating, or putting up with, conditionally.
James Thorne Smith, Jr. (March 27, 1892 – June 21, 1934) was an American writer of humorous supernatural fantasy fiction under the byline Thorne Smith.
&quot;The Sentinel&quot; is a short story  by British author Arthur C. Clarke, written in 1948 and first published in 1951 as &quot;Sentinel of Eternity&quot;, which was used as a starting point for the novel and film 2001: A Space Odyssey, where it was modified and fused with other ideas.
The Fountains of Paradise is a novel by British writer Arthur C. Clarke.
A tokamak  () is a device that uses a powerful magnetic field to confine plasma in the shape of a torus.  The tokamak is one of several types of magnetic confinement devices being developed to contain the hot plasma needed for producing controlled thermonuclear fusion power.
A turbopump is a propellant pump with two main components: a rotodynamic pump and a driving gas turbine, usually both mounted on the same shaft, or sometimes geared together. The purpose of a turbopump is to produce a high-pressure fluid for feeding a combustion chamber or other use.
The tragedy of the anticommons is a type of coordination breakdown, in which a single resource has numerous rightsholders who prevent others from using it, frustrating what would be a socially desirable outcome. It is a mirror-image of the older concept of tragedy of the commons, in which numerous rightsholders' combined use exceeds the capacity of a resource and depletes or destroys it.
Thealogy (a neologism derived from Ancient Greek , -logy, meaning &quot;study of&quot;) is generally understood as a discourse that reflects upon the meaning of Goddess (thea) in contrast to God (theo).Raphael, Melissa.
A torpedo boat is a relatively small and fast naval ship designed to carry torpedoes into battle. The first designs rammed enemy ships with explosive spar torpedoes, and later designs launched self-propelled Whitehead torpedoes.
The Book of the Courtier ( ) is a courtesy book. It was written by Baldassare Castiglione over the course of many years, beginning in 1508, and published in 1528 by the Aldine Press in Venice just before his death; an English edition was published in 1561.
In computing, traceroute is a computer network diagnostic tool for displaying the route (path) and measuring transit delays of packets across an Internet Protocol (IP) network. The history of the route is recorded as the round-trip times of the packets received from each successive host (remote node) in the route (path); the sum of the mean times in each hop is a measure of the total time spent to establish the connection.
Time to live (TTL) or hop limit is a mechanism that limits the lifespan or lifetime of data in a computer or network. TTL may be implemented as a counter or timestamp attached to or embedded in the data.
–  Revival series: – present
A truck (or lorry) is a motor vehicle designed to transport cargo. Trucks vary greatly in size, power, and configuration; smaller varieties may be mechanically similar to some automobiles.
A tamasay (or tamasai) is a bead necklace worn by Ainu women for special occasions.
thumb|First article of the [[Universal Declaration of Human Rights in English, written with a spelling-based pointed mode of tengwar.]]
In molecular biology, a transcription factor (TF) (or sequence-specific DNA-binding factor) is a protein that controls the rate of transcription of genetic information from DNA to messenger RNA, by binding to a specific DNA sequence. Their function is to regulate - turn on and off - genes in order to make sure that they are expressed in the right cell at the right time and in the right amount throughout the life of the cell and the organism.
Theosophy is a collection of mystical and occultist philosophies concerning, or seeking direct knowledge of, the presumed mysteries of life and nature, particularly of the nature of divinity and the origin and purpose of the universe. Theosophy is considered part of Western esotericism, which believes that hidden knowledge or wisdom from the ancient past offers a path to enlightenment and salvation.
THC is tetrahydrocannabinol, the main active chemical compound in cannabis.
220px|right|thumb|Tangent to a curve. The red line is tangential to the curve at the point marked by a red dot.
Eicher, High Commands, p. 316; Robertson, p.
Tertiary education, also referred to as third stage, third level, and post-secondary education, is the educational level following the completion of a school providing a secondary education. The World Bank, for example, defines tertiary education as including universities as well as institutions that teach specific capacities of higher learning such as colleges, technical training institutes, community colleges, nursing schools, research laboratories, centers of excellence, and distance learning centers.
Trimix is a breathing gas, consisting of oxygen, helium and nitrogen, and is often used in deep commercial diving, during the deep phase of dives carried out using technical diving techniques, and in advanced recreational diving.
Theoretical chemistry is a branch of chemistry, which develops theoretical generalizations that are part of the theoretical arsenal of modern chemistry, for example, the concept of chemical bonding, chemical reaction, valence, the surface of potential energy, molecular orbitals, orbital interactions, molecule activation etc.
The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World (, literal translation: The True State of the World) is a book by Danish environmentalist author Bjørn Lomborg, controversial for its claims that overpopulation, declining energy resources, deforestation, species loss, water shortages, certain aspects of global warming, and an assortment of other global environmental issues are unsupported by analysis of the relevant data. It was first published in Danish in 1998, while the English edition was published as a work in environmental economics by Cambridge University Press in 2001.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are a class of medications that are used primarily as antidepressants. TCAs were first discovered in the early 1950s and were marketed later in the decade.
The Slits were a British rock band formed in London in 1976 by members of the groups The Flowers of Romance and The Castrators. The group's early line-up consisted of Ari Up (Ariane Forster) and Palmolive (a.
Turners () are members of German-American gymnastic clubs.
A thief is a person who commits theft.
The Champion of the Universe (Tryco Slatterus) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. He is not necessarily a villain but has played the role in the past through his impetuous and arrogant actions.
The Beyonder is a fictional cosmic entity appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Jim Shooter and artist Mike Zeck, the Beyonder first appeared in Secret Wars #1 (May 1984) as an unseen, nearly omnipotent being who kidnapped the heroes and villains of the Marvel Universe and had them do battle on another planet called Battleworld.
Avengers or The Avengers may refer to:
The Flash (or simply Flash) is the name of several superheroes appearing in comic books published by DC Comics. Created by writer Gardner Fox and artist Harry Lampert, the original Flash first appeared in Flash Comics #1 (cover date January 1940/release month November 1939).
thumb|right|Portrait of [[Francis Dashwood, 11th Baron le Despencer by William Hogarth from the late 1750s, parodying Renaissance images of Francis of Assisi. The Bible has been replaced by a copy of the erotic novel Elegantiae Latini sermonis, and the profile of Dashwood's friend Lord Sandwich peers from the halo.
Spy fictionComedyCrimeMystery
A triathlon is a multiple-stage competition involving the completion of three continuous and sequential endurance disciplines. While many variations of the sport exist, triathlon, in its most popular form, involves swimming, cycling, and running in immediate succession over various distances.
The Germs were an American punk rock band from Los Angeles, California, United States, originally active from 1977 to 1980. The band's main early lineup consisted of singer Darby Crash, guitarist Pat Smear, bassist Lorna Doom and drummer Don Bolles.
Thuggee or tuggee (; ; ; ; ; ) refers to the acts of Thugs, an organised gang of professional robbers and murderers.
In electronics design, Tapeout is the final result of the design process for integrated circuits or printed circuit boards before they are sent for manufacturing. The Tapeout is specifically the point at which the graphic for the photomask of the circuit is sent to the fabrication facility.
The Treaty of Cahuenga, also called the  &quot;Capitulation of Cahuenga,&quot;  ended the fighting of the Mexican-American War in Alta California in 1847.  It was not a formal treaty between nations but an informal agreement between rival military forces in which the Californios gave up fighting.
Tumbarinu are Sardinian drums made with dog or donkey skin. They are a characteristic folk instrument of Gavoi.
The transuranium elements (also known as transuranic elements) are the chemical elements with atomic numbers greater than 92 (the atomic number of uranium). All of these elements are unstable and decay radioactively into other elements.
Twin cities are a special case of two cities or urban centres that are founded in close geographic proximity and then grow into each other over time, losing most of their mutual buffer zone.
A tongue-twister
}}
Magnificent Seven}}
United Artists
Thomas E. Lovejoy, &quot;the Godfather of Biodiversity,&quot; is a Senior Fellow at the United Nations Foundation and University Professor in the Environmental Science and Policy department at George Mason University.
The State of the World (SoW) is a series of books published annually since 1984 by the Worldwatch Institute. The series attempts to identify the planet's most significant environmental challenges.
Tavolara is a small island off the northeast coast of Sardinia, Italy.  The island is a limestone massif  long and  wide, with steep cliffs except at its ends.
A tactic (from the Ancient Greek  taktike meaning &quot;art of arrangement&quot;) is a conceptual action aiming at the achievement of a goal. This action can be implemented as one or more specific tasks.
Trillium (trillium, wakerobin, tri flower, birthroot, birthwort) is a genus of perennial flowering plants native to temperate regions of North America and Asia.Kew World Checklist of Selected Plant Families
}}
(as Hinckley-Tandy Leather Company)Fort Worth, Texas, U.S.
Thornapple may refer to:
TAT-1 (Transatlantic No. 1) was the first submarine transatlantic telephone cable system.
Time travel is the concept of movement (such as by a human) between certain points in time, analogous to movement between different points in space, typically using a hypothetical device known as a time machine, in the form of a vehicle or of a portal connecting distant points in time. Time travel is a recognized concept in philosophy and fiction, but traveling to an arbitrary point in time has a very limited support in theoretical physics, and usually only connected with quantum mechanics or wormholes, also known as Einstein-Rosen bridges.
TVP may stand for:
TNT is trinitrotoluene, an explosive chemical compound.
A two-party system is a party system where two major political partiesNote: in the politics of Australia, technically there are not two political parties but rather &quot;two major political groupings&quot;; for further information, see Coalition (Australia) dominate the  government. One of the two parties typically holds a majority in the legislature and is usually referred to as the majority or governing party while the other is the minority or opposition party.
Tic-tac-toe (also known as noughts and crosses or Xs and Os) is a paper-and-pencil game for two players, X and O, who take turns marking the spaces in a 3×3 grid. The player who succeeds in placing three of their marks in a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal row wins the game.
-
Transverse myelitis is a neurological condition in which the spinal cord is inflamed. The inflammation damages nerve fibers, and causes them to lose their myelin coating leading to decreased electrical conductivity in the central nervous system.
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There (1871) is a novel by Lewis Carroll (Charles Lutwidge Dodgson), the sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865). Set some six months later than the earlier book, Alice again enters a fantastical world, this time by climbing through a mirror into the world that she can see beyond it.
The Book of Jacob is the third book of the Book of Mormon.  Its full title is The Book of Jacob: The Brother of Nephi.
The Book of Ether (),LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «ē´ther» one of the books of the Book of Mormon, describes the Jaredites, descendants of Jared and his companions, who were led by God to the Americas shortly after the confusion of tongues and the destruction of the Tower of Babel.
}}
Article One of the United States Constitution establishes the legislative branch of the federal government, the United States Congress.  The Congress is a bicameral legislature consisting of a House of Representatives and a Senate.
Article Two of the United States Constitution establishes the executive branch of the federal government, which carries out and enforces federal laws. The executive branch includes the President, the Vice President, the Cabinet, executive departments, independent agencies, and other boards, commissions, and committees.
Article Three of the United States Constitution establishes the judicial branch of the federal government. The judicial branch comprises the Supreme Court of the United States and lower courts as created by Congress.
Article Four of the United States Constitution outlines the relationship between each state and the others, and the several States and the federal government.
Article Five of the United States Constitution describes the process whereby the Constitution, the nation's frame of government, may be altered. Altering the Constitution consists of proposing an amendment or amendments and subsequent ratification.
Article Six of the United States Constitution establishes the laws and treaties of the United States made in accordance with it as the supreme law of the land, forbids a religious test as a requirement for holding a governmental position and holds the United States under the Constitution responsible for debts incurred by the United States under the Articles of Confederation.
The First Amendment (Amendment I) to the United States Constitution prohibits the making of any law respecting an establishment of religion, ensuring that there is no prohibition on the free exercise of religion, abridging the freedom of speech, infringing on the freedom of the press, interfering with the right to peaceably assemble, or prohibiting the petitioning for a governmental redress of grievances. It was adopted on December 15, 1791, as one of the ten amendments that constitute the Bill of Rights.
The Third Amendment (Amendment III) to the United States Constitution places restrictions on the quartering of soldiers in private homes without the owner's consent, forbidding the practice in peacetime. The amendment is a response to Quartering Acts passed by the British parliament during the buildup to the American Revolutionary War, which had allowed the British Army to lodge soldiers in private residences.
The Second Amendment (Amendment II) to the United States Constitution protects the right of the people to keep and bear arms and was adopted on December 15, 1791, as part of the first ten amendments contained in the Bill of Rights. The Supreme Court of the United States has ruled that the right belongs to individuals, while also ruling that the right is not unlimited and does not prohibit all regulation of either firearms or similar devices.
190px|thumb|The Bill of Rights in the [[National Archives and Records Administration|National Archives]]
The Sixth Amendment (Amendment VI) to the United States Constitution is the part of the United States Bill of Rights that sets forth rights related to criminal prosecutions. The Supreme Court has applied the protections of this amendment to the states through the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Seventh Amendment (Amendment VII) to the United States Constitution is part of the Bill of Rights. This amendment codifies the right to a jury trial in certain civil cases, and inhibits courts from overturning a jury's findings of fact.
thumb|alt=Image of the English Bill of Rights of 1689 that reads, 'that excessive bail ought not to be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments inflicted'|Pertinent part of the English Bill of Rights, December 1689. 190px|thumb|The American Bill of Rights in the [[National Archives and Records Administration|National Archives, March 1789]]
190px|thumb|The Bill of Rights in the [[National Archives and Records Administration|National Archives]]
The Tenth Amendment (Amendment X) to the United States Constitution, which is part of the Bill of Rights, was ratified on December 15, 1791. |publisher=United States National Archives and Records Administration}}  It expresses the principle of federalism and states' rights, which strictly supports the entire plan of the original Constitution for the United States of America, by stating that the federal government possesses only those powers delegated to it by the United States  Constitution.
190px|thumb|The Eleventh Amendment in the [[National Archives and Records Administration|National Archives]]
The Twelfth Amendment (Amendment XII) to the United States Constitution provides the procedure for electing the President and Vice President. It replaced the procedure provided in Article II, Section 1, Clause 3, by which the Electoral College originally functioned.
The Thirteenth Amendment (Amendment XIII) to the United States Constitution abolished slavery and involuntary servitude, except as punishment for a crime. In Congress, it was passed by the Senate on April 8, 1864, and by the House on January 31, 1865.
The Fourteenth Amendment (Amendment XIV) to the United States Constitution was adopted on July 9, 1868, as one of the Reconstruction Amendments. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws and was proposed in response to issues related to former slaves following the American Civil War.
The Fifteenth Amendment (Amendment XV) to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's &quot;race, color, or previous condition of servitude&quot;. It was ratified on February 3, 1870, as the third and last of the Reconstruction Amendments.
The Sixteenth Amendment (Amendment XVI) to the United States Constitution allows the Congress to levy an income tax without apportioning it among the states or basing it on the United States Census. This amendment exempted income taxes from the constitutional requirements regarding direct taxes, after income taxes on rents, dividends, and interest were ruled to be direct taxes in the court case of Pollock v.
The Seventeenth Amendment (Amendment XVII) to the United States Constitution established the popular election of United States Senators by the people of the states. The amendment supersedes Article I, §3, Clauses 1 and 2 of the Constitution, under which senators were elected by state legislatures.
The Nineteenth Amendment (Amendment XIX) to the United States Constitution prohibits the states and the federal government from denying the right to vote to citizens of the United States on the basis of sex. It was adopted on August 18, 1920.
The Eighteenth Amendment (Amendment XVIII) of the United States Constitution effectively established the prohibition of alcoholic beverages in the United States by declaring the production, transport, and sale of alcohol (though not the consumption or private possession) illegal. The separate Volstead Act set down methods for enforcing the Eighteenth Amendment, and defined which &quot;intoxicating liquors&quot; were prohibited, and which were excluded from prohibition (e.
The Twentieth Amendment (Amendment XX) to the United States Constitution moved the beginning and ending of the terms of the president and vice president from March 4 to January 20, and of members of Congress from March 4 to January 3. It also has provisions that determine what is to be done when there is no president-elect.
The Uralic languages (; sometimes called Uralian languages ) constitute a language family of 38Language family tree of Uralic on Ethnologue languages spoken by approximately 25 million people, predominantly in Northern Eurasia. The Uralic languages with the most native speakers are Hungarian, Finnish, and Estonian, which are official languages of Hungary, Finland, and Estonia, respectively, and of the European Union.
A utopia ( ) is an imagined community or society that possesses highly desirable or nearly perfect qualities for its citizens.Giroux, H.
The history of the United Kingdom as a unified sovereign state began in 1707 with the political union of the kingdoms of England and Scotland,New Act of Union would strengthen UK, says Fabricant BBC News, accessed 1 September 2013 into a united kingdom called Great Britain.The terms &quot;United Kingdom&quot; and &quot;United Kingdom of Great Britain&quot; were used in the Treaty of Union and the 1707 Acts of Union.
The United Kingdom is a sovereign state located off the north-western coast of continental Europe. With a total area of approximately , the UK occupies the major part of the British Isles archipelago and includes the island of Great Britain, the north-eastern one-sixth of the island of Ireland and many smaller surrounding islands.
According to the 2011 census, the total population of the United Kingdom was around 63,182,000. It is the 22nd-largest in the world.
The United Kingdom is a unitary state with devolution, is governed within the framework of a parliamentary democracy under a constitutional monarchy, in which the monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth II, is the head of state and the prime minister of the United Kingdom, currently Theresa May, is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the British government, on behalf of and by the consent of the monarch, as well as by the devolved governments of Scotland and Wales, and the Northern Ireland Executive.
Until 1982, the main civil telecommunications system in the UK was a state monopoly known (since reorganisation in 1969) as Post Office Telecommunications. Broadcasting of radio and television was a duopoly of the BBC and Independent Broadcasting Authority (IBA): these two organisations controlled all broadcast services, and directly owned and operated the broadcast transmitter sites.
Transport in the United Kingdom is facilitated with road, air, rail, and water networks. A radial road network totals  of main roads,  of motorways and  of paved roads.
Naval Service Royal Navy   Royal Marines
The diplomatic foreign relations of the United Kingdom are conducted by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, headed by the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs. The Prime Minister and numerous other agencies play a role in setting policy, and many institutions and businesses have a voice and a role.
Mr. Chief Justice Your Honor
The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force. During periods of recession, an economy usually experiences a relatively high unemployment rate.
Unicode is a computing industry standard for the consistent encoding, representation, and handling of text expressed in most of the world's writing systems. Developed in conjunction with the Universal Coded Character Set (UCS) standard and published as The Unicode Standard, the latest version of Unicode contains a repertoire of 136,755 characters covering 139 modern and historic scripts, as well as multiple symbol sets.
Uranium is a chemical element with symbol U and atomic number 92. It is a silvery-white metal in the actinide series of the periodic table.
Possible Late Cretaceous-Present
Udo of Aachen (c.1200–1270) is a fictional monk, a creation of British technical writer Ray Girvan, who introduced him in an April Fool's hoax article in 1999.
Ultra was the designation adopted by British military intelligence in June 1941 for wartime signals intelligence obtained by breaking high-level encrypted enemy radio and teleprinter communications at the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&amp;CS) at Bletchley Park. Ultra eventually became the standard designation among the western Allies for all such intelligence.
400px|thumb|right|Alabama's congressional districts since 2013
These are tables of congressional delegations from Alaska to the United States Senate and United States House of Representatives.
These are tables of congressional delegations from Hawaii to the United States Senate and United States House of Representatives.
400px|thumb|right|Arizona's congressional districts since 2013
Arizona has been the name of three ships of the United States Navy.
An urban legend, urban myth, urban tale, or contemporary legend is a form of modern folklore usually consisting of fictional stories, often with macabre elements, deeply rooted in local popular culture. These legends can be used for entertainment purposes, as well as semi-serious explanations for random events such as disappearances and strange objects.
,genitive
,genitive
also is included in the World Games
Ultrasound is sound waves with frequencies higher than the upper audible limit of human hearing. Ultrasound is no different from 'normal' (audible) sound in its physical properties, except in that humans cannot hear it.
Unit may refer to:
Utilitarianism is an ethical theory which states that the best action is the one that maximizes utility. &quot;Utility&quot; is defined in various ways, usually in terms of the well-being of sentient entities.
The Ultramagnetic MCs is an American hip hop group based in Bronx, New York. Founded by Kool Keith, the group also includes Ced Gee, TR Love, and Moe Love.
}}
Compulsory education}}
}}
This is a list of the colleges within the University of Cambridge. These colleges provide most of the accommodation for undergraduates and graduates at the University and at the undergraduate level they have responsibility for admitting students to the University and organising their tuition.
}}
}}
U (named u , plural ues&quot;U&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993)Brown &amp; Kiddle (1870) The institutes of English grammar, page 19. Ues is the plural of the name of the letter; the plural of the letter itself is rendered U's, Us, u's, or us.
.
An unidentified flying object, or UFO, is in its strictest definition any apparent object in the sky that is not identifiable as a known object or phenomenon. However the term is widely used in popular culture to refer more specifically to supposed observations of craft of extraterrestrial origin.
}}
(1 July 2017: not including Crimea and Sevastopol)
Politics of Ukraine takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic and of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by both the President and the Government.
$93 billion (2016, nominal)
Telecommunications is one of the most modern, diverse and fast-growing sectors in the economy of Ukraine. Unlike country's dominating export industries, the telecommunications, as well as the related Internet sector, remain largely unaffected by the global economic crisis, ranking high in European and global rankings.
Transport in Ukraine includes ground transportation (road and rail), water (sea and river), air transportation, and pipelines. The transportation sector accounts for roughly 11% of the country's gross domestic product and 7% of total employment.
Ukraine has formal relations with many nations and in recent decades has been establishing diplomatic relations with an expanding circle of nations. The foreign relations of Ukraine are guided by a number of key priorities outlined in the foreign policy of Ukraine.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a country on the Arabian Peninsula located on the southeastern coast of the Persian Gulf and the northwestern coast of the Gulf of Oman. The UAE consists of seven emirates and was founded on 2 December 1971 as a federation.
The United Arab Emirates is situated in Middle East/southwest Asia, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia; it is on a strategic location along northern approaches to the Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil. The UAE lies between 22°50′ and 26° north latitude and between 51° and 56°25′ east longitude.
This article contains demographic features of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), including population density, vital statistics, immigration and emigration data, ethnicity, education levels, religions practiced, and languages spoken within the UAE.
Politics of the United Arab Emirates takes place in a framework of a federal, presidential, absolute monarchy. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a federation of seven constituent monarchies: the Emirates of Abu Dhabi, Ajman, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah, and Umm al-Quwain.
Telecommunications in the United Arab Emirates is under the control and supervision of the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA) which was established under UAE Federal Law by Decree No. 3 of 2003.
This article covers the various forms of transport in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), by road, rail, air, water, etc.
Since the establishment of the United Arab Emirates on 2 December 1971, the UAE adopted a balanced foreign policy based on adoption of dialogue, respect of international conventions, commitment to the United Nations Charter and non-interference of other country's internal affairs, and the settlement of disputes by peaceful means.
(Spanish)
The history of Uruguay comprises different periods: the pre-Columbian time or early history (up to the sixteenth century), the colonial period (1516–1811), the period of nation-building (1811-1830), and the history of Uruguay as an independent country (from around 1830).
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Uruguay, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Uruguay abide by a presidential representative democratic republic, under which the President of Uruguay is both the head of state and the head of government, as well as a multiform party system. The president exercises executive power and legislative power and is vested in the two chambers of the General Assembly of Uruguay.
Telecommunications in Uruguay includes radio, television, telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in nation of Uruguay consists of 1,641 km of rail network, 7,743 km of roads, 1,600 km of navigable waterways, and 15 airports/landing fields.
This article deals with the diplomatic affairs, foreign policy and international relations of Uruguay. At the political level, these matters are officially handled by the Ministry of Foreign Relations, also known as Cancillería, which answers to the President.
In the first millennium BC, Iranian nomads established irrigation systems along the rivers of Central Asia and built towns at Bukhara and Samarqand. These places became extremely wealthy points of transit on what became known as the Silk Road between China and Europe.
}}
The demographics of Uzbekistan are the demographic features of the population of Uzbekistan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population. The nationality of any person from Uzbekistan is Uzbekistani, while the ethnic Uzbek majority call themselves Uzbeks.  A lot of data is estimated because the last census was carried out in Soviet times in 1989.
}}
Telecommunications networks in Uzbekistan are largely based on Soviet-built infrastructure but with many modern additions, making the country one of the leading influences in the region in informational development.
As of 2007, Uzbekistan's overland transportation infrastructure declined significantly in the post-Soviet era due to low investment and poor maintenance. Air transport was the only branch that received substantial government investment in the early 2000s, as airport modernization projects were undertaken.
Uzbekistan joined the Commonwealth of Independent States in December 1991. However, it is opposed to reintegration and withdrew from the CIS collective security arrangement in 1999.
Uterine siblings}}
Unicon may refer to:
Under Suspicion may refer to:
Ubiquitous computing (or &quot;ubicomp&quot;) is a concept in software engineering and computer science where computing is made to appear anytime and everywhere. In contrast to desktop computing, ubiquitous computing can occur using any device, in any location, and in any format.
Rough draft: Library of Congress
Ulrich Leman (15 October 1885 – 22 April 1988) was a German painter.
Ultimate or Ultimates may refer to:
The Universal Copyright Convention (UCC), adopted in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1952, is one of the two principal international conventions protecting copyright; the other is the Berne Convention.
In quantum mechanics, the uncertainty principle, also known as Heisenberg's uncertainty principle or Heisenberg's indeterminacy principle, is any of a variety of mathematical inequalities  asserting a fundamental limit to the precision with which certain pairs of physical properties of a particle, known as complementary variables, such as position x and momentum p, can be known.
UKP may refer to:
U-boat is the anglicised version of the German word U-Boot , a shortening of Unterseeboot, literally &quot;undersea boat&quot;. While the German term refers to any submarine, the English one (in common with several other languages) refers specifically to military submarines operated by Germany, particularly in the First and Second World Wars.
The UK is the United Kingdom, a sovereign country located off the north-western coast of continental Europe.
Ubbi dubbi is a language game spoken with the English language, and is a close relative of the language game Obbish. It was popularized by the 1970s PBS television show Zoom.
Universalism is a theological and philosophical concept with universal application or applicability. Universalist doctrines consider all people in their formation.
The  (UNU), established in 1973, is the academic and research arm of the United Nations. It is headquartered in Shibuya, Tokyo, Japan, with diplomatic status as a UN institution.
In the mathematical field of set theory, an ultrafilter on a given partially ordered set (poset) P is a maximal filter on P, that is, a filter on P that cannot be enlarged. Filters and ultrafilters are special subsets of P.
In Norse mythology, Útgarðar (literal meaning:  &quot;Outyards&quot;; plural of Útgarðr; the word can be anglicized to Utgard, Utgardar and in other ways) surrounded a stronghold of the Ettings.  They are associated with Útgarða-Loki, a great and devious giant featured in one of the myths concerning Thor and the other Loki who compete in rigged competitions held in the Outyards.
In electronic communication, the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is one of the core members of the Internet protocol suite. The protocol was designed by David P.
USB stands for Universal Serial Bus, a computer bus standard.
{|
}}
thumb|The [[Böksta Runestone shows a figure on skis and with a bow, possibly Ullr.]]
This list of metro systems includes electrified rapid transit train systems worldwide. In some cases, metro systems are referred to as subways,  U-Bahns or undergrounds.
The United Nations member states are the  sovereign states that are members of the United Nations (UN) and have equal representation in the UN General Assembly. The UN is the world's largest intergovernmental organization, ahead of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
u-mutation}}
border
border
towing  after the bombing.
}}
Ultraviolet (UV) is an electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength from 10 nm  to 400 nm, shorter than that of visible light but longer than X-rays. UV radiation constitutes about 10% of the total light output of the Sun, and is thus present in sunlight.
2.2 pp
The seal of the university is emblazoned with the word &quot;Sursum&quot;, Latin for &quot;Upwards&quot;.
The United States is a federal republic in which the president, Congress, and federal courts share powers reserved to the national government according to its Constitution. At the same time, the federal government shares sovereignty with the state governments.
The primary regulator of communications in the United States is the Federal Communications Commission.  It closely regulates all of the industries mentioned below with the exception of newspapers and the Internet service provider industry.
Transportation in the United States is facilitated by road, air, rail, and waterways (via boats).  The vast majority of passenger travel occurs by automobile for shorter distances, and airplane or railroad for some people, for longer distances.
This is a list of political parties in the United States, both past and present.
The standard of living in the United States is high by the standards that most economists use, and for many decades throughout the 20th century, the United States was recognized as having the highest standard of living in the world. Per capita income is high but also less evenly distributed than in most other developed countries; as a result, the United States fares particularly well in measures of average material well being that do not place weight on equality aspects.
A Unix shell is a command-line interpreter or shell that provides a traditional Unix-like command line user interface.  Users direct the operation of the computer by entering commands as text for a command line interpreter to execute, or by creating text scripts of one or more such commands.
The Dispossessed: An Ambiguous Utopia is a 1974 utopian science fiction novel by American writer Ursula K. Le Guin, set in the same fictional universe as that of The Left Hand of Darkness (the Hainish Cycle).
The Hainish Cycle consists of a number of science fiction novels and stories by Ursula K. Le Guin.
UDP  may refer to:
TU}}
Up is the y-axis relative vertical direction opposed to down.
Utrecht is a city in the Netherlands.
Unisa may refer to:
Urology (from Greek [ouron &quot;urine&quot; and  -logia] &quot;study of&quot;), also known as genitourinary surgery, is the branch of [[medicine that focuses on surgical and medical diseases of the male and female  urinary-tract system and the male reproductive organs. Organs under the domain of urology include the kidneys, adrenal glands, ureters, urinary bladder, urethra, and the male reproductive organs (testes, epididymis, vas deferens, seminal vesicles, prostate, and penis).
Unitarian|Universalism as a general philosophy|Universalism}}
The urea cycle (also known as the ornithine cycle) is a cycle of biochemical reactions that produces urea ((NH2)2CO) from ammonia (NH3). This cycle occurs in ureotelic organisms.
United Kingdom Republic of Ireland
USS John C. Stennis (CVN-74) is the seventh  nuclear-powered supercarrier in the United States Navy, named for Senator John C.
6.2 pp
Maass, John R. &quot;June 14th: The Birthday of the U.
)}}
&amp; Red
}}
Urban exploration (often shortened as urbex, UE, bexing, urbexing and sometimes known as roof-and-tunnel hacking) is the exploration of man-made structures, usually abandoned ruins or not usually seen components of the man-made environment. Photography and historical interest/documentation are heavily featured in the hobby and, although it may sometimes involve trespassing onto private property, this is not always the case.
Unabomber may refer to:
Eight ships of the United States Navy have been named USS Hornet, after the stinging insect.
is a character in the popular Oh My Goddess! manga and anime, voiced by Toma Yumi (冬馬由美).
The Upper Peninsula is the northern of the two major peninsulas that make up the U.S.
In metaphysics, a universal is what particular things have in common, namely characteristics or qualities. In other words, universals are repeatable or recurrent entities that can be instantiated or exemplified by many particular things.
thumb|[[Hutton's Unconformity at Jedburgh.  A photograph shows the current scene (2003), below John Clerk of Eldin's illustration of 1787.
The Universal Decimal Classification (UDC) is a bibliographic and library classification representing the systematic arrangement of all branches of human knowledge organized as a coherent system in which knowledge fields are related and inter-linked.UDC Fact Sheet, UDC Consortium website[McIlwaine, I.
Ultima is a series of open world fantasy role-playing video games from Origin Systems, Inc. Ultima was created by Richard Garriott.
In anatomy, the  urethra (from Greek οὐρήθρα – ourḗthrā) is a tube in placental mammals that connects the urinary bladder to the urinary meatus for the removal of fluids from the body. In males the urethra travels through the penis, and carries semen as well as urine.
thumb|right|300px|U.S.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of the United States Virgin Islands, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of the United States Virgin Islands takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic dependency, whereby the Governor is the head of the local government, and of a multi-party system. The United States Virgin Islands are an unincorporated and organized territory of the United States, administered by the Office of Insular Affairs of the United States Department of the Interior.
This territory uses US currency and the fiscal year is 1 October - 30 September.http://www.
Communications in the United States Virgin Islands
thumb|300px|A street sign reminding drivers to drive on the left.
Universal precautions  refers to the practice, in medicine, of avoiding contact with patients' bodily fluids, by means of the wearing of nonporous articles such as medical gloves, goggles, and face shields. The practice was introduced in 1985–88.
In information technology, a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) is a string of characters used to identify a resource.
The quarter, short for quarter dollar, is a United States coin worth 25 cents, one-fourth of a dollar. It has a diameter of .
}}
The University for Peace (UPEACE) is an intergovernmental organization with university status, established by treaty in 1980 and having its main campus in Costa Rica. Its stated mission is “to provide humanity with an international institution of higher education for peace with the aim of promoting among all human beings the spirit of understanding, tolerance and peaceful coexistence, to stimulate cooperation among peoples and to help lessen obstacles and threats to world peace and progress, in keeping with the noble aspirations proclaimed in the Charter of the United Nations.
USS Greeneville (SSN-772) is a , and the only ship of the United States Navy to be named after Greeneville, Tennessee.
Unitarian}}
Ubiquitin is a small (8.5 kDa) regulatory protein  found in most tissues of eukaryotic organisms i.
Ulfilas (–383), also known as Ulphilas and Orphila, all Latinized forms of the Gothic Wulfila, literally &quot;Little Wolf&quot;,Bennett, William H. An Introduction to the Gothic Language, 1980, p.
The Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a general-purpose, developmental,  modeling language in the field of software engineering, that is intended to provide a standard way to visualize the design of a system.
UML may refer to:
Erik Solheim
USS Scorpion may refer to:
The Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC) is an interagency deliberative body responsible for intelligence assessment, coordination and oversight of the Secret Intelligence Service, Security Service, GCHQ and Defence Intelligence. The JIC is supported by the Joint Intelligence Organisation under the Cabinet Office.
USS Ohio may refer to:
}
UTF-8 is a character encoding capable of encoding all 1,112,06417×216 = 1,114,112 code points minus 2,048 technically-invalid surrogate code points valid code points in Unicode using one to four 8-bit bytes.A group of 8 bits is known as an octet in the Unicode Standard The encoding is defined by the Unicode standard, and was originally designed by Ken Thompson and Rob Pike.
Underground railway may refer to:
The Underground Railroad was a network of secret routes and safe houses established in the United States during the early-to-mid 19th century, and used by African-American slaves to escape into free states and Canada with the aid of abolitionists and allies who were sympathetic to their cause.A network of houses and other places abolitionists used to help enslaved Africans escape to freedom in the northern states or in Canada...
(2001)
}}
USS Monitor was an iron-hulled steamship. Built during the American Civil War, she was the first ironclad warship commissioned by the Union Navy.
Urząd Ochrony Państwa (; Office for State Protection) or UOP was the intelligence agency of Poland.
UOP is an initialism that may stand for the following:
USS Peleliu (LHA-5) was a  of the United States Navy, named for the Battle of Peleliu of World War II. Entering service in 1980, she has been deployed to the Persian Gulf on several occasions, performed an evacuation of U.
The UIC Franc (code: XFU) was a virtual currency unit used by the International Union of Railways (UIC). It was withdrawn from the ISO-4217 currency list in 2013.
The Subcommittee on International Organizations of the Committee on International Relations (also known as the Fraser Committee) was a committee of the United States House of Representatives which met in 1976 and 1977 and conducted an investigation into South Korea–United States relations.  It was chaired by Representative Donald M.
The Code of Laws of the United States of AmericaTitle 1 of the Code as published by the Office of the Law Revision Counsel (variously abbreviated to Code of Laws of the United States, United States Code, U.S.
UU or uu may refer to:
Unitarian or Unitarianism may refer to:
Four ships of the United States Navy have been named USS George Washington in honor of George Washington.
USS Cole may refer to:
The United Religions Initiative (URI) is a global grassroots interfaith network that cultivates peace and justice by engaging people to bridge religious and cultural differences and work together for the good of their communities and the world. The purpose of the United Religions Initiative is to promote enduring, daily interfaith cooperation, to end religiously motivated violence and to create cultures of peace, justice and healing for the Earth and all living beings.
USS City Of Corpus Christi (SSN-705), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Corpus Christi, Texas. The Navy originally planned to use the name &quot;USS Corpus Christi.
USS Memphis may refer to:
Four ships of the United States Navy have borne the name USS Tecumseh, in honor of Tecumseh (ca. 1768–1813), a Shawnee Indian chief.
}}
right|thumb|An image of [[Pope Alexander I. Ultramontane Catholics emphasized the authority of the pope over temporal affairs of civil governments as well as the spiritual affairs of the Church.
Ural–Altaic, Uralo-Altaic or Uraltaic, also known as Turanian, is an obsolete language-family proposal uniting the Uralic and Altaic languages.
An urban heat island (UHI) is an urban area or metropolitan area that is significantly warmer than its surrounding rural areas due to human activities.  The temperature difference usually is larger at night than during the day, and is most apparent when winds are weak.
}}
USS Ticonderoga may refer to:
The Coast Guard Aviation Association, formerly known as the Ancient Order of the Pterodactyl (AOP) is a fraternal association founded in 1977. The organization has the purpose of focusing on United States Coast Guard aviation history.
USS Enterprise may refer to:
In various branches of mathematics, a useful construction is often viewed as the “most efficient solution” to a certain problem.  The definition of a universal property uses the language of category theory to make this notion precise and to study it abstractly.
In mathematics, an uncountable set (or uncountably infinite set)Uncountably Infinite — from Wolfram MathWorld is an infinite set that contains too many elements to be countable. The uncountability of a set is closely related to its cardinal number: a set is uncountable if its cardinal number is larger than that of the set of all natural numbers.
Reuben James was a Boatswain's Mate who distinguished himself fighting the Barbary pirates.
German submarine U-552 was a Type VIIC U-boat built for Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine for service during World War II. She was laid down on 1 December 1939 at Blohm &amp; Voss in Hamburg as yard number 528, launched on 14 September 1940 and went into service on 4 December 1940.
German submarine U-571 was a Type VIIC U-boat built for the Kriegsmarine of Nazi Germany for service during World War II. U-571 conducted eleven war patrols, sinking seven ships totalling , and damaging one other, which displaced 11,394 tons.
German submarine U-110 was a Type IXB U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine that operated during World War II. She was captured by the Royal Navy on 9 May 1941 and provided a number of secret cipher documents to the British.
German submarine U-20 was a Type IIB U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine. Her keel was laid down on 1 August 1935, by Germaniawerft of Kiel as yard number 550.
The urinary bladder is a hollow muscular organ in many animals, that collects and stores urine from the kidneys before disposal by urination.  In the human the bladder is a hollow muscular, and distensible (or elastic) organ, that sits on the pelvic floor.
The United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) was an international relief agency, largely dominated by the United States but representing 44 nations.  Founded in 1943, it became part of the United Nations in 1945, and it largely shut down operations in 1947.
German submarine U-155 was a Type IXC U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine built for service during World War II. Her keel was laid down on 1 October 1940 by DeSchiMAG AG Weser in Bremen as yard number 997.
German submarine U-556 was a Type VIIC U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine during World War II. She was laid down on 2 January 1940 at the Blohm &amp; Voss yard in Hamburg as yard number 532, launched on 7 December 1940, and commissioned on 6 February 1941 under the command of Kapitänleutnant Herbert Wohlfarth, who commanded her for her entire career.
U-81 may refer to one of the following German submarines:
Ursula Southeil (c. 1488–1561) (also variously spelt as Ursula Southill, Ursula SoothtellThe Strange and Wonderful History of Mother Shipton, London, 1686 or Ursula Sontheil), better known as Mother Shipton, is said to have been an English soothsayer and prophetess.
U-74 may refer to one of the following German submarines:
German submarine U-2511 was a Type XXI U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine during World War II. The Elektroboot submarine was laid down on 7 July 1944 at the Blohm &amp; Voss yard at Hamburg, launched on 2 September 1944, and commissioned on 29 September 1944 under the command of Korvettenkapitän Adalbert Schnee.
The ukulele ( , from ukulele}}  (oo-koo-leh-leh); variant: ukelele,) is a member of the lute family of instruments; it generally employs four nylon or gut strings or four courses of strings.Erich M.
Usability testing is a technique used in user-centered interaction design to evaluate a product by testing it on users. This can be seen as an irreplaceable usability practice, since it gives direct input on how real users use the system.
The Cabinet of the United States is an executive organ of the U.S.
thumb|250px|right|Seat of the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, [[Israel.]]
border
{|
}}
United States customary units are a system of measurements commonly used in the United States. The United States customary system (USCS or USC) developed from English units which were in use in the British Empire before the U.
The Lockheed U-2, nicknamed &quot;Dragon Lady, is an American single-jet engine, ultra-high altitude reconnaissance aircraft operated by the United States Air Force (USAF) and previously flown by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). It provides day and night, high-altitude (70,000 feet; 21,336 m), all-weather intelligence gathering.
thumb|100 px|left|Unua Libro por Rusoj (first edition, 1887, in Russian)
In fiction, engineering, and thought experiments, unobtainium is any fictional, extremely rare, costly, or impossible material, or (less commonly) device needed to fulfill a given design for a given application. The properties of any particular unobtainium depend on the intended use.
The unary numeral system is the bijective base-1 numeral system. It is the simplest numeral system to represent natural numbers:.
Ulysses is the Latin name for Odysseus, a hero in ancient Greek literature.
Universal Networking Language (UNL) is a declarative formal language specifically designed to represent semantic data extracted from natural language texts. It can be used as a pivot language in interlingual machine translation systems or as a knowledge representation language in information retrieval applications.
United States naval reactors are  nuclear reactors used by the United States Navy aboard certain ships to generate the steam used to produce power for propulsion, electric power, catapulting airplanes in aircraft carriers, and a few more minor uses.  Such Naval nuclear reactors have a complete power plant associated with them.
USS Glenard P. Lipscomb (SSN-685), was a nuclear-powered attack submarine of the United States Navy
USS Triton may refer to:
USS Halibut has been the name of more than one United States Navy ship, and may refer to:
USS Tullibee has been the name of more than one United States Navy ship, and may refer to:
Coins of the United States dollar were first minted in 1792. New coins have been produced annually since then and they make up a valuable aspect of the United States currency system.
(1900–1912) (1952–1988)
In mathematics, a function f is uniformly continuous if, roughly speaking, it is possible to guarantee that f(x) and f(y) be as close to each other as we please by requiring only that x and y are sufficiently close to each other; unlike ordinary continuity, the maximum distance between f(x) and f(y) cannot depend on x and y themselves. For instance, any isometry (distance-preserving map) between metric spaces is uniformly continuous.
In the mathematical field of topology, a uniform space is a set with a uniform structure. Uniform spaces are topological spaces with additional structure that is used to define uniform properties such as completeness, uniform continuity and uniform convergence.
In probability theory and statistics, variance is the expectation of the squared deviation of a random variable from its mean.  Informally, it measures how far a set of (random) numbers are spread out from their average value.
A vacuole () is a membrane-bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some protist, animalVenes, Donald (2001). Taber's Cyclopedic Medical Dictionary (Twentieth Edition), (F.
Verlan () is an argot in the French language, featuring inversion of syllables in a word, and is common in slang and youth language.  It rests on a long French tradition of transposing syllables of individual words to create slang words.
In computing, a virtual machine (VM) is an emulation of a computer system.  Virtual machines are based on computer architectures and provide functionality of a physical computer.
In computing, virtual memory is a memory management technique that is implemented using both hardware and software. It maps memory addresses used by a program, called virtual addresses, into physical addresses in computer memory.
Vexatious litigation is legal action which is brought, regardless of its merits, solely to harass or subdue an [It may take the form of a primary frivolous lawsuit] or may be the repetitive, burdensome, and unwarranted filing of meritless motions in a matter which is otherwise a meritorious [[cause of action. Filing vexatious litigation is considered an abuse of the judicial process and may result in sanctions against the offender.
Publius Vergilius Maro (; traditional dates October 15, 70 BC – September 21, 19 BC), usually called Virgil or Vergil  in English, was an ancient Roman poet of the Augustan period. He wrote three of the most famous poems in Latin literature, the Eclogues (or Bucolics), the Georgics, and the epic Aeneid.
Value theory is a range of approaches to understanding how, why, and to what degree persons value things; whether the object or subject of valuing is a person, idea, object, or anything else.
thumb|The Vampire, by [[Philip Burne-Jones, 1897]]
In analytic philosophy and linguistics, a concept may be considered vague if its extension is deemed lacking in clarity, if there is uncertainty about which objects belong to the concept or which exhibit characteristics that have this predicate (so-called &quot;border-line cases&quot;), or if the Sorites paradox applies to the concept or predicate.Williamson, T.
A vector space (also called a linear space) is a collection of objects called vectors, which may be added together and multiplied (&quot;scaled&quot;) by numbers, called scalars. Scalars are often taken to be real numbers, but there are also vector spaces with scalar multiplication by complex numbers, rational numbers, or generally any field.
}}
thumb|right|400px|Vietnam's cities and towns
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Vietnam, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam are defined by a single-party socialist republic framework, where the President of Vietnam is the head of state and the Prime Minister of Vietnam is the head of government, in a one-party system led by the Communist Party of Vietnam. Executive power is exercised by the government and the President of Vietnam.
$594.9 billion (2016, PPP)
}}
Puzzle video games are a genre of video games that emphasize puzzle solving. The types of puzzles can test many problem-solving skills including logic, pattern recognition, sequence solving, and word completion.
A platform game (or platformer) is a  type of video game, and subgenre of action game. It involves guiding a player character or avatar to jump between suspended platforms and/or over obstacles to traverse their environment.
A fighting game is a video game genre in which the player controls an on-screen character and engages in close combat with an opponent, which can be either an AI or controlled by another player. The fight matches typically consist of several rounds and take place in an arena, while each character has widely differing abilities but each is relatively viable to choose.
A video game developer is a software developer that specializes in video game development – the process and related disciplines of creating video games. A game developer can range from one person who undertakes all tasks to a large business with employee responsibilities split between individual disciplines, such as programming, design, art, testing, etc.
}}
Vegetable farming is the growing of vegetables for human consumption. The practice probably started in several parts of the world over ten thousand years ago, with families growing vegetables for their own consumption or to trade locally.
The word vinaigrette or vinegarette (from the diminutive of the French term vinaigre meaning vinegar) can refer to:
,genitive
A vehicle (from ) is a mobile machine that transports people or cargo.  Typical vehicles include wagons, bicycles, motor vehicles (motorcycles, cars, trucks, buses), railed vehicles (trains, trams), watercraft (ships, boats), aircraft and spacecraft.
6.073 million units
A valley is a low area between hills, often with a river running through it. In geology, a valley or dale is a depression that is longer than it is wide.
The Volga River is a river of Russia.
The geography of Vatican City is unique due to the country's position as an urban, landlocked enclave of Rome, Italy. With an area of , it is the world's smallest independent state.
The politics of Vatican City take place in a framework of an absolute theocratic elective monarchy, in which the head of the Catholic Church, the Pope, exercises ex officio supreme legislative, executive, and judicial power over the State of the Vatican CityFundamental Law of Vatican City State, Art. 1, #1 (an entity distinct from the Holy See), a rare case of non-hereditary monarchy.
}}
The violin is a wooden string instrument in the violin family. It is the smallest and highest-pitched instrument in the family in regular use.
Vittorio De Sica (; 7 July 1901 – 13 November 1974) was an Italian director and actor, a leading figure in the neorealist movement.
thumb|right|Vieille Montagne factory in [[Angleur]]
Vanadium is a chemical element with symbol V and atomic number 23. It is a hard, silvery grey, ductile, and malleable transition metal.
}}
Veal is the meat of  calves, in contrast to the beef from older cattle. Veal can be produced from a calf of either sex and any breed; however, most veal comes from young males of dairy breeds who are not used for breeding.
thumb|right|267px|A vellum [[deed dated 1638, with pendent seal attached]]
In chemistry, vinyl or ethenyl
V (named vee &quot;V&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;vee&quot;, op. cit.
Video is an electronic medium for the recording, copying, playback, broadcasting, and display of moving visual media.
a
The history of Vanuatu begins obscurely. The commonly held theory of Vanuatu's prehistory from archaeological evidence supports that peoples speaking Austronesian languages first came to the islands some 3,300 years ago.
right|Map of Vanuatu
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Vanuatu, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Vanuatu take place within the framework of a constitutional democracy. The constitution provides for a  representative parliamentary system.
}}
This article is about the communication systems in Vanuatu.
Vanuatu's undeveloped road system, with fewer than 100 miles of paved roads, consists mostly of dirt tracks suitable only for four-wheel-drive vehicles.The Peace Corps Welcomes You to Vanuatu.
Vanuatu maintains relations with more than 65 countries, and has a very modest network of diplomatic missions. Australia, France, Republic of Korea, New Zealand and the People's Republic of China maintain embassies, high commissions, or missions in Port Vila.
thumb|300px|Map of Venezuela
The Demographics of Venezuela are the condition and overview of Venezuela's peoples. Demographic topics include basic education, health, and population statistics as well as identified racial and religious affiliations
The politics of Venezuela occurs in a framework explained in Government of Venezuela.
Telephones - main lines in use:
Venezuela is connected to the world primarily via air (Venezuela's airports include the Simón Bolívar International Airport near Caracas and La Chinita International Airport near Maracaibo) and sea (with major seaports at La Guaira, Maracaibo and Puerto Cabello). In the south and east the Amazon rainforest region has limited cross-border transport; in the west, there is a mountainous border of over  shared with Colombia.
border|23px Venezuelan Army Navy of Venezuelaborder|23px Venezuelan Air Forceborder|23px Venezuelan National Guard25px Venezuelan National Militia
The foreign relations of Venezuela had since the early twentieth century been particularly strong with the United States. However, with the election of Hugo Chávez as President of Venezuela in 1998, the foreign policy differed substantially from that of previous Venezuelan governments.
The Virgin Islands are the western island group of the Leeward Islands, which are the northern part of the Lesser Antilles, and form the border between the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. Politically, the group is divided into the British, American, and Spanish Virgin Islands.
The term history of the Virgin Islands could refer to:
In mammals, the vagina is a muscular and tubular part of the female genital tract, which, in humans, extends from the vulva to the cervix. The outer vaginal opening may be partly covered by a membrane called the hymen.
Religions of the Discworld}}
In electronics, a vacuum tube, an electron tube, or just a tube (North America), or valve (Britain and some other regions), is a device that controls electric current between electrodes in an evacuated container.
}}
Volume is the quantity of three-dimensional space enclosed by a closed surface, for example, the space that a substance (solid, liquid, gas, or plasma) or shape occupies or contains.
Vector graphics is the use of polygons to represent images in computer graphics. Vector graphics are based on vectors, which lead through locations called control points or nodes.
A vacuum pump is a device that removes gas molecules from a sealed volume in order to leave behind a partial vacuum.  The first vacuum pump was invented in 1650 by Otto von Guericke, and was preceded by the suction pump, which dates to antiquity.
Vacuum is space void of matter. The word stems from the Latin adjective vacuus for &quot;vacant&quot; or &quot;void&quot;.
Vancouver is a major city in British Columbia, Canada.
In physics a vapor (American) or vapour  (British) is a substance in the gas phase at a temperature lower than its critical temperature,R. H.
Venus is the second planet from the sun.
Viroids are the smallest infectious pathogens known. They are solely composed of a short strand of circular, single-stranded RNA without protein coat.
VAX  is a discontinued instruction set architecture (ISA) developed by Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) in the mid-1970s. The VAX-11/780, introduced on October 25, 1977, was the first of a range of popular and influential computers implementing that architecture.
(emperor of the east, with his brother Valentinian I in the west;  (emperor in the east, with his nephews Gratian and Valentinian II as emperors of the west)
A VCR is a videocassette recorder
Batavia () was a ship of the Dutch East India Company (VOC). It was built in Amsterdam in 1628, and armed with 24 cast-iron cannons and a number of bronze guns.
The Amsterdam () was an 18th-century cargo ship of the Dutch East India Company (Dutch: Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compagnie; VOC). The ship started its maiden voyage from Texel to Batavia on 8 January 1749, but was wrecked in a storm on the English Channel on 26 January 1749.
Vasa may refer to:
The visual cortex of the brain is a part of the cerebral cortex that processes visual information. It is located in the occipital lobe in the back of the head.
thumb|right|Detail of the [[votive crown of Reccesuinth from the Treasure of Guarrazar, hanging in Madrid-the hanging letters spell [R]ECCESVINTHVS REX OFFERET [King R. offers this].
thumb|A vector pointing from A to B
250px|thumb|&quot;Valhalla&quot; (1896) by [[Max Brückner (painter)|Max Brückner]]
The Viking Age is the period from the late 8th century to the mid-11th century in European history, especially Northern European and Scandinavian history, following the Germanic Iron Age.Forte, p.
Volvox is a polyphyletic genus of chlorophyte green algae in the family Volvocaceae. It forms spherical colonies of up to 50,000 cells.
Vermouth ( ; also ;OxfordDictionaries.com (British and World English; US English) is an aromatized, fortified wine flavored with various botanicals (roots, barks, flowers, seeds, herbs, and spices).
Vinland, VinelandLaurence Marcellus Larson in Canute the Great: 995 (circ.)-1035 and the Rise of Danish Imperialism During the Viking Age, New York: Putnam, 1912 p.
thumb|[[Nem cuon or Goi cuon (salad rolls), a nem dish wrapped in banh trang]]
Vaticanus may refer to:
,  ,
Vincent Alsop (c. 1630 – 8 May 1703) was an English Nonconformist clergyman, some of whose works became landmarks in the history of religious nonconformity.
Valkyrie was a UK role-playing magazine. The magazine was started in 1994.
A vulture is a scavenging bird of prey.  The two types of vultures are the New World vultures, including the Californian and Andean condors, and the Old World vultures, including the birds that are seen scavenging on carcasses of dead animals on African plains.
Volleyball is a team sport in which two teams of six players are separated by a net. Each team tries to score points by grounding a ball on the other team's court under organized rules.
The vocative case (abbreviated ) is the case used for a noun that identifies a person (animal, object etc.) being addressed or occasionally the determiners of that noun.
A velodrome is an arena for track cycling. Modern velodromes feature steeply banked oval tracks, consisting of two 180-degree circular bends connected by two straights.
Pile}}
The volt (symbol: V) is the derived unit for electric potential, electric potential difference (voltage), and electromotive force. It is named after the Italian physicist Alessandro Volta (1745–1827).
,genitive
A volcano is a rupture in the crust of a planetary-mass object, such as Earth, that allows hot lava, volcanic ash, and gases to escape from a magma chamber below the surface.
thumb|250px|right|Scheme of a liposome formed by [[phospholipids in an aqueous solution.]]
Victimology is the study of victimization, including the psychological effects on victims, relationships between victims and offenders, the interactions between victims and the criminal justice system—that is, the police and courts, and corrections officials—and the connections between victims and other social groups and institutions, such as the media, businesses, and social movements.Andrew Karmen, 2003, Crime Victims: An Introduction to Victimology, Wadsworth Publishing, .
The Vulgate () is a late 4th-century Latin translation of the Bible that became, during the 16th century, the Catholic Church's officially [Latin] version of the [[Bible.
The family Vampyrellidae Zopf, 1885 is a subgroup of the order Vampyrellida West, 1901 within the phylum Cercozoa. Based on molecular sequence data, the family currently comprises the genus Vampyrella, and maybe several other vampyrellid amoebae (e.
V-chip is a generic term for technology used in television set receivers in Canada, Brazil and the United States, which allows the blocking of programs based on their ratings category. It is intended for use by parents to manage their children's television viewing.
thumb|250px|A variety of [[vegan and vegetarian deli foods]]
}}
A Vietnam veteran is someone who served in the armed forces of participating countries during the Vietnam War.
;
Vegetarian cuisine is based on food that meets vegetarian standards by not including meat and animal tissue products (such as gelatin or animal-derived rennet). For lacto-ovo vegetarianism (the most common type of vegetarianism in the Western world), eggs and dairy products such as milk and cheese are permitted.
Vocal loading is the stress inflicted on the speech organs when speaking for long periods.
Vikings (Old English: wicing—&quot;pirate&quot;,Whitelock, Dorothy. Sweet's Anglo-Saxon Reader, OUP 1967, p.
U.S.
}}
stubby bottle, 4.9% ABV
Video art is an art form which relies on moving pictures in a visual and audio medium. Video art came into existence during the late 1960s and early 1970s as new consumer video technology became available outside corporate broadcasting.
Vanilla is a flavoring derived from orchids of the genus Vanilla, primarily from the Mexican species, flat-leaved vanilla (V. planifolia).
Video editing software is an application program which handles the post-production video editing of digital video sequences on a computer non-linear editing system (NLE).  It has replaced traditional flatbed celluloid film editing tools and analogue video tape-to-tape online editing machines.
A video game console is an electronic, digital or computer device that outputs a video signal or visual image to display a video game that one or more people can play.
The veneration of the dead, including one's ancestors, is based on love and respect for the deceased. In some cultures, it is related to beliefs that the dead have a continued existence, and may possess the ability to influence the fortune of the living.
Saint Veronica was a pious woman of Jerusalem in the first century AD, according to Catholic tradition. A celebrated saint in many pious Christian countries, the Acta Sanctorum published by the Bollandists  gave her Feast (under July 12), but the Jesuit Scholar Joseph Braun cited her commemoration in Festi Marianni on 13 January.
thumb|&quot;Nornir&quot; (ca. 1884) by [[J.
Vector calculus, or vector analysis, is a branch of mathematics concerned with differentiation and integration of vector fields, primarily in 3-dimensional Euclidean space \mathbb{R}^3.  The term &quot;vector calculus&quot; is sometimes used as a synonym for the broader subject of multivariable calculus, which includes vector calculus as well as partial differentiation and multiple integration.
Viz is a popular British comic magazine founded in 1979 by Chris Donald. It parodies British comics of the post-war period, notably The Beano and The Dandy, but with vulgar language, toilet humour, black comedy, surreal humour and generally sexual or violent storylines.
The viol ,pronunciation of viol in the Oxford Learner's Dictionaries viola da gamba&quot;Viola da gamba&quot; denotes a family of instruments distinct from the violin family, or &quot;violas da braccio.&quot; Currently, the term &quot;viola da gamba&quot; without qualification generally refers to the bass viol.
right|thumb|267px|&quot;Mercury and Herse&quot;, scene from The Loves of the Gods by [[Gian Giacomo Caraglio, showing Mercury, Herse, and Aglaulos]]
The Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution Concerning the Control of Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds or Their Transboundary Fluxes (known as the Volatile Organic Compounds Protocol or the VOC Protocol) is a protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution which aims to provide for the control and reduction of emissions of volatile organic compounds in order to reduce their transboundary fluxes so as to protect human health and the environment from adverse effects. The protocol was concluded at Geneva, Switzerland.
, ,
A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing microorganism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins.
Veterinary medicine is the branch of medicine that deals with the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease, disorder and injury in non-human animals.  The scope of veterinary medicine is wide, covering all animal species, both domesticated and wild, with a wide range of conditions which can affect different species.
Varney the Vampire; or, the Feast of Blood is a Victorian era serialized gothic horror story by James Malcolm Rymer and Thomas Peckett Prest. It first appeared in 1845–47 as a series of weekly cheap pamphlets of the kind then known as &quot;penny dreadfuls&quot;.
V12}}
A V-twin engine, also called a V2 engine, is a two-cylinder internal combustion engine where the cylinders are arranged in a V configuration.  Although widely associated with motorcycles, V-twin engines are also produced for the power equipment industry and are often found in riding lawnmowers, small tractors and electric generators.
In mechanics, the virial theorem provides a general equation that relates the average over time of the total kinetic energy, \left\langle T \right\rangle, of a stable system consisting of N particles, bound by potential forces, with that of the total potential energy, \left\langle V_\text{TOT} \right\rangle, where angle brackets represent the average over time of the enclosed quantity. Mathematically, the theorem states
Voice-over (also known as off-camera or off-stage commentary) is a production technique where a  voice—that is not part of the narrative (non-diegetic)—is used in a radio, television production, filmmaking, theatre, or other presentations.Merriam Webster's Online Dictionary The voice-over is read from a script and may be spoken by someone who appears elsewhere in the production or by a specialist voice talent.
Vincenzo Salvatore Carmelo Francesco Bellini (; 3 November 1801 – 23 September 1835) was an Italian opera composer,Lippmann and  McGuire 1998, in Sadie, p. 389 who was known for his long-flowing melodic lines for which he was named &quot;the Swan of Catania&quot;.
Vodun (meaning spirit in the Fon and Ewe languages,  with a nasal high-tone u; also spelled Vodon, Vodoun, Vodou, Voudou, Voodoo, etc.) is practiced by the Ewe people of eastern and southern Ghana, and southern and central Togo; and the Kabye people, Mina people, and Fon people of southern and central Togo, and southern and central Benin.
* For the modern New Zealand aircraft company see: Vickers Aircraft Company
thumb|The Portfolio of Villard de Honnecourt (about 1230)
Vertical Interval Timecode (VITC, pronounced &quot;vitsee&quot;) is a form of SMPTE timecode encoded on one scan line in a video signal.  These lines are typically inserted into the vertical blanking interval of the video signal.
Vandalism is &quot;action involving deliberate destruction of or damage to public or private property.&quot;
A vocoder (, a portmanteau of voice encoder) is a category of voice codec that analyzes and synthesizes the human voice signal for audio data compression, multiplexing, voice encryption, voice transformation, etc.
Voice analysis is the study of speech sounds for purposes other than linguistic content, such as in speech recognition. Such studies include mostly medical analysis of the voice  (phoniatrics), but also speaker identification.
A villanelle (also known as villanesque)Kastner 1903 p. 279 is a nineteen-line poetic form consisting of five tercets followed by a quatrain.
Vulvovaginal health is the health and sanitation of the human female vulva and vagina.
(20 November 2000)
thumb|right|300px|A depiction of Víðarr stabbing Fenrir while holding his jaws apart (1908) by [[W. G.
In phonetics, a vowel is a sound in spoken language, with two complementary definitions. In the phonetic definition, a vowel is a sound pronounced with an open vocal tract, so that the tongue does not touch the lips, teeth, or roof of the mouth, such as the English &quot;ah&quot;  or &quot;oh&quot; .
A V6 engine is a V engine with six cylinders mounted on the crankshaft in two banks of three cylinders, usually set at either a 60 or 90 degree angle to each other. The V6 engine is more difficult to drive compared to the V8.
The Vehmic courts, Vehmgericht, holy vehme, or simply Vehm, also spelt Feme, Vehmegericht, Fehmgericht,OED, s.v.
Visual flight rules (VFR) are a set of regulations under which a pilot operates an aircraft in weather conditions generally clear enough to allow the pilot to see where the aircraft is going. Specifically, the weather must be better than basic VFR weather minima, i.
Veit Stoss (also: Veit Stoß; ; before 1450 - about 20 September 1533) was a leading German sculptor, mostly in wood, whose career covered the transition between the late Gothic and the Northern Renaissance.  His style emphasized pathos and emotion, helped by his virtuoso carving of billowing drapery; it has been called &quot;late Gothic Baroque&quot;.
thumb|270px|VEI and ejecta volume correlation
Sarasvati River (Sanskrit: , IAST: sárasvatī nadī) is one of the  Rigvedic rivers mentioned in the Rig Veda and later Vedic and post vedic texts. The Sarasvati River played an important role in Hinduism since Vedic Sanskrit.
A vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) aircraft is one that can hover, take off, and land vertically. This classification can include a variety of types of aircraft including fixed-wing aircraft  as well as helicopters and other aircraft with powered rotors, such as cyclogyros/cyclocopters and tiltrotors.
or
border
thumb|right|A dancer at the Gaskell Ball, an event of a vintage dance society
The Condorcet paradox (also known as voting paradox or the paradox of voting) is a situation noted by the Marquis de Condorcet in the late 18th century, in which collective preferences can be cyclic, even if the preferences of individual voters are not cyclic. This is paradoxical, because it means that majority wishes can be in conflict with each other.
April 1995 (Remix)Saturn32XWindows 95 (Remix)
Vernon Green (May 1, 1937 – December 24, 2000) was leader of the rhythm and blues band The Medallions.  He wrote the 1954 song &quot;The Letter&quot; which contained the nonsense lyric, &quot;the puppetutes of love.
The Virginia class, also known as the SSN-774 class, is a class of nuclear-powered fast attack submarines (hull classification symbol SSN) in service with the United States Navy. Virginia-class submarines are designed for a broad spectrum of open-ocean and littoral (shallow coastal water) missions.
The term V bomber was used for the Royal Air Force (RAF) aircraft during the 1950s and 1960s that composed the United Kingdom's strategic nuclear strike force known officially as the V-force or Bomber Command Main Force. The strategic bombers, whose names all started with the letter &quot;V&quot; and which were known collectively as the V-class, included the Vickers Valiant (first flew 1951, entered service 1955), Avro Vulcan (first flew 1952, in service 1956) and Handley Page Victor (first flew 1952, in service 1958).
Victoria University may refer to:
thumb|Demonstration voltmeter
The planet's disc is about three-quarters illuminated. Almost no variation or detail can be seen in the clouds.
East Germany
Vienna Convention can mean any of a number of treaties signed in Vienna. Notable are:
}}
There were several video and audio recordings released by Osama bin Laden between 2001 and 2011.
border
Vinegar is a liquid consisting of about 5–20% acetic acid (CH3COOH), water, and other trace chemicals, which may include flavorings. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria.
The National Science Board established the Vannevar Bush Award ( ) in 1980 to honor Vannevar Bush's unique contributions to public service. The annual award recognizes an individual who, through public service activities in science and technology, has made an outstanding &quot;contribution toward the welfare of mankind and the Nation.
Varyag or Variag may refer to:
[Animals.jpg|thumb|Venomous Animals]
Virology is the study of viruses – submicroscopic, parasitic particles of genetic material contained in a protein coat – and virus-like agents. It focuses on the following aspects of viruses: their structure, classification and evolution, their ways to infect and exploit host cells for reproduction, their interaction with host organism physiology and immunity, the diseases they cause, the techniques to isolate and culture them, and their use in research and therapy.
Victoria University}}
Victoria University (VU) is a university based in Victoria, Australia. It is a dual-sector tertiary institution providing courses in both higher education and Technical and Further Education (TAFE).
Victor of Aveyron (c. 1788 – 1828) was a French feral child who was found at the age of around twelve (he was going through puberty, and the doctors could only assume his age at the time).
VBA may refer to:
}}
V2}}
Wódka}}
Marcus Vitruvius Pollio (born c. 80–70 BC, died after c.
Villains and Vigilantes (abbreviated as V&amp;V) is a superhero-themed role-playing game which competed primarily with Champions and Superworld in the early to mid-1980s.
}}
Variable stars are designated using a variation on the Bayer designation format of an identifying label (as described below) combined with the Latin genitive of the name of the constellation in which the star lies. See List of constellations for a list of constellations and the genitive forms of their names.
Victoria College is or was the name of several institutions of secondary or higher education, and may refer to:
Vercingetorix (  or  ; ;  82 BC – 46 BC) was a king and chieftain of the Arverni tribe; he united the Gauls in a revolt against Roman forces during the last phase of Julius Caesar's Gallic Wars.
The vocal folds, also known commonly as vocal cords or voice reeds, are composed of twin infoldings of mucous membrane stretched horizontally, from back to front, across the larynx. They vibrate, modulating the flow of air being expelled from the lungs during phonation.
VLB may mean:
Volapük ( in English;OED  in Volapük) is a constructed language, created in 1879–1880 by Johann Martin Schleyer, a Roman Catholic priest in Baden, Germany. Schleyer felt that God had told him in a dream to create an international language.
}}
The Bell Boeing V-22 Osprey is an American multi-mission, tiltrotor military aircraft with both vertical takeoff and landing (VTOL), and short takeoff and landing (STOL) capabilities. It is designed to combine the functionality of a conventional helicopter with the long-range, high-speed cruise performance of a turboprop aircraft.
thumbnail|The Voortrekker Flag
Variable may refer to:
Velars are consonants articulated with the back part of the tongue (the dorsum)
Very-large-scale integration (VLSI) is the process of creating an integrated circuit (IC) by combining thousands of transistors into a single chip. VLSI began in the 1970s when complex semiconductor and communication technologies were being developed.
}}
Varicose veins are veins that have become enlarged and twisted. The term commonly refers to the veins on the leg, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York although varicose veins can occur elsewhere.
Vietnamese may refer to:
A wiki ( ) is a website on which users collaboratively modify content and structure directly from the web browser. In a typical wiki, text is written using a simplified markup language and often edited with the help of a rich-text editor.
A word is a unit of language.
}}
A wedding is a ceremony where two people or a couple are united in marriage. Wedding traditions and customs vary greatly between cultures, ethnic groups, religions, countries, and social classes.
}}
}}
A watermark is an identifying image or pattern in paper that appears as various shades of lightness/darkness when viewed by transmitted light (or when viewed by reflected light, atop a dark background), caused by thickness or density variations in the paper.
The Western canon is the body of books, music, and art that scholars generally accept as the most important and influential in shaping Western culture. It includes works of fiction, non-fiction, poetry, drama, music, art, sculpture, and architecture generally perceived as being of major artistic merit and representing the high culture of Europe and North America.
}}
Writing is a medium of human communication that represents language and emotion with signs and symbols. In most languages, writing is a complement to speech or spoken language.
Winter solstice is an astronomical phenomenon which marks the shortest day and the longest night of the year.
Whist is a classic English trick-taking card game which was widely played in the 18th and 19th centuries.Waddingtons Family Card Games, Robert Harbin, Pan Books Ltd, London, 1972 Although the rules are extremely simple, there is enormous scope for scientific play.
A white elephant is a possession which its owner cannot dispose of and whose cost, particularly that of maintenance, is out of proportion to its usefulness. The term derives from the story that the kings of Siam, now Thailand, were accustomed to make a present of one of these animals to courtiers who had rendered themselves obnoxious, in order to ruin the recipient by the cost of its maintenance.
The Double-Cross System or XX System was a World War II counter-espionage and deception operation of the British Security Service, a civilian organisation usually referred to by its cover title MI5. Nazi agents in Britain – real and false – were captured, turned themselves in or simply announced themselves, and were then used by the British to broadcast mainly disinformation to their Nazi controllers.
 –  (German offensive: )
War Game}}
Wearable computers, also known as body-borne computers or wearables are miniature electronic devices that are worn under, with or on top of clothing.Mann, Steve (2012): Wearable Computing.
The total number of military and civilian casualties in World War I was more than 41 million: there were over 18 million deaths and 23 million wounded, ranking it among the deadliest conflicts in human history.
World War I reparations were compensation imposed during the Paris Peace Conference upon the Central Powers following their defeat in the First World War by the Allied and Associate Powers. Each of the defeated powers was required to make payments in either cash or kind.
Woodworking is the activity or skill of making items from wood, and includes cabinet making (Cabinetry and Furniture), wood carving, joinery, carpentry, and woodturning.
A Web crawler, sometimes called a spider, is an Internet bot that systematically browses the World Wide Web, typically for the purpose of Web indexing (web spidering).
Wireless Valley is a term that was coined by Professor Ted Rappaport in 1990 when he was a faculty member at Virginia Tech, and was used to describe the Roanoke/Blacksburg, Virginia region and the potential of research to create spin-out companies. In 1990 he and his students founded TSR Technologies, a company that made software-defined cellular and paging intercept and drive test equipment that was sold to Allen Telecom in 1993, and in 1995 Wireless Valley Communications, a company that pioneered the creation of computer-aided wireless network prediction and management software that was sold to Motorola in late 2005.
In physics, the wavelength of a sinusoidal wave is the spatial period of the wave—the distance over which the wave's shape repeats,
}}
(No official nickname)&quot;Wisconsin State Symbols&quot; in Wisconsin Blue Book 2005-2006, p. 966.
}}
Wireless telegraphy is the transmission of electric telegraphy signals without wires (wirelessly).  It is now used as a historical term for the first radio communication systems, which transmitted telegraph signals by radio waves.
Wutang}}
The World Wide Web (abbreviated WWW or the Web) is an information space where documents and other web resources are identified by Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), interlinked by hypertext links, and can be accessed via the Internet. English scientist Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web in 1989.
A wireless local area network (WLAN) is a wireless computer network that links two or more devices using wireless communication within a limited area such as a home, school, computer laboratory, or office building. This gives users the ability to move around within a local coverage area and yet still be connected to the network.
Whisky or whiskeyOxford English Dictionary, Second Edition: &quot;In modern trade usage, Scotch whisky and Irish whiskey are thus distinguished in spelling; 'whisky' is the usual spelling in Britain and 'whiskey' that in the U.S.
War is a state of armed conflict between societies. It is generally characterized by extreme aggression, destruction, and mortality, using regular or irregular military forces.
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (; ;Sources vary in how Mozart's name should be pronounced in English. Fradkin (1996), a guide for radio announcers, strongly recommends [ts] for letter z, but otherwise considers English-like pronunciation fully acceptable; thus .
Wiki software (also known as a wiki engine or wiki application) is a collaborative software that runs a wiki, which allows users to create and collaboratively edit &quot;pages&quot; or entries via a web browser. A wiki system is usually a web application that runs on one or more web servers.
}}
War (disambiguation)}}
A wireless network is a computer network that uses wireless data connections between network nodes.
A web browser (commonly referred to as a browser) is a software application for retrieving, presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. An information resource is identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI/URL) that may be a web page, image, video or other piece of content.
A wharf, quay (, also  or ), staith or staithe is a structure on the shore of a harbour or on the bank of a river or canal where ships may dock to load and unload cargo or passengers.
In the computer hacking scene of the 1980s, demon dialing was a technique by which a computer is used to repeatedly dial a number (usually to a crowded modem pool) in an attempt to gain access immediately after another user had hung up.  The expansion of accessible internet service provider connectivity since that time more or less rendered the practice obsolete.
White supremacy or white supremacism is a racist ideology based upon the belief that white people are superior in many ways to people of other races and that therefore white people should be dominant over other races. White supremacy has roots in scientific racism and it often relies on pseudoscientific arguments.
W (named double-u,Pronounced , , , , or  plural double-ues)&quot;W&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993)Brown &amp; Kiddle (1870) The institutes of grammar, p. 19.
A woman is a female human being. The term woman is usually reserved for an adult, with the term girl being the usual term for a female child or adolescent.
}}
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Wallis and Futuna, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
This page is an overview of the economy of Wallis and Futuna.
}}}}
}}}}}}Taneẓroft Tutrimt}}
The history of Western Sahara can be traced back to the times of Carthaginian explorer Hanno the Navigator in the 5th century BC. Though few historical records are left from that period, Western Sahara's modern history has its roots linked to some nomadic groups (living under Berber tribal rule and in contact with the Roman Empire) such as the Sanhaja group and the introduction of Islam and the Arabic language the end from the 8th century AD.
All data about demographic information regarding Western Sahara is extremely error prone, regardless of source.  Most countries take censuses every ten years, and some every five in order to stay abreast of change and miscounts; the last count was conducted in 1970, and even that data by colonial Spain is considered unreliable due to large nomadic populations.
The politics of Western Sahara take place in a framework of an area claimed by both the partially recognized Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco, which controls the majority of the territory.
}}
Telecommunications in Western Sahara include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
Transport in Western Sahara is very limited by sea, road and air with camels being the primary means of transport in the desert area. Road transport by buses remain the major mode of transportation.
Western Sahara, formerly the Spanish colony of Spanish Sahara, is a disputed territory claimed by both the Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front. It is listed by the United Nations (UN), as a non-decolonized territory and is thus included in the United Nations List of Non-Self-Governing Territories.
White matter refers to areas of the central nervous system (CNS) that are mainly made up of myelinated axons, also called tracts. Long thought to be passive tissue, white matter affects learning and brain functions, modulating the distribution of action potentials, acting as a relay and coordinating communication between different brain regions.
A word processor is an electronic device or computer software application, that performs the task of composing, editing, formatting, and printing of documents.
thumbnail|300px|The [main page|Wikipedia main page] on August 15, 2010 as viewed with a widescreen monitor
William I may refer to:
William Crossing (1847–1928) was a writer and chronicler of Dartmoor and the lives of its inhabitants. He lived successively at South Brent, Brentor and at Mary Tavy but died at Plymouth, Devon.
The weighted arithmetic mean is similar to an ordinary arithmetic mean (the most common type of average), except that instead of each of the data points contributing equally to the final average, some data points contribute more than others. The notion of weighted mean plays a role in descriptive statistics and also occurs in a more general form in several other areas of mathematics.
Coregonus is a diverse genus of fish in the salmon family (Salmonidae).  The Coregonus species are known as whitefishes.
The Words of Mormon is one of the books that make up the Book of Mormon. It is the only one not titled as a 'book' and consists of a single chapter of eighteen verses.
WYSIWYG ( ) is an acronym for &quot;what you see is what you get&quot;.  In computing, a WYSIWYG editor is a system in which content (text and graphics) can be edited in a form closely resembling its appearance when printed or displayed as a finished product, such as a printed document, web page, or slide presentation.
A wire-frame model is a visual presentation of a 3-dimensional (3D) or physical object used in 3D computer graphics. It is created by specifying each edge of the physical object where two mathematically continuous smooth surfaces meet, or by connecting an object's constituent vertices using straight lines or curves.
Wicca (), also termed Pagan Witchcraft, is a contemporary Pagan new religious movement. It was developed in England during the first half of the 20th century and was introduced to the public in 1954 by Gerald Gardner, a retired British civil servant.
Whig
Waterloo most commonly refers to:
William Thomson}}
The Wankel engine is a type of internal combustion engine using an eccentric rotary design to convert pressure into rotating motion. In contrast to the more common reciprocating piston designs, the Wankel engine delivers advantages of simplicity, smoothness, compactness, high revolutions per minute, and a high power-to-weight ratio primarily due to the fact that it produces three power pulses per rotor revolution compared to one per revolution in a two-stroke piston engine and one per two revolutions in a four-stroke piston engine (although at the actual output shaft, there is only one power pulse per revolution, since the output shaft spins three times as fast as the actual rotor does, as can be seen in the animation below, making it roughly equivalent to a 2-stroke engine of the same displacement; this is also why the displacement only measures one face of the rotor, since only one face is working for each outut shaft revolution).
}}
thumb|238px|A painting of the bhavacakra in [[Sera Monastery, Tibet]]
Water is a transparent and nearly colorless chemical substance that is the main constituent of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans, and the fluids of most living organisms.  Its chemical formula is H2O, meaning that its molecule contains one oxygen and two hydrogen atoms, that are connected by covalent bonds.
* emo
Web commerce is a form of electronic commerce that is conducted primarily through the World Wide Web, but may also use email and other aspects of the Internet.
Wave–particle duality is the concept in quantum mechanics  that every particle or quantic entity may be partly described in terms not only of particles, but also of waves. It expresses the inability of the classical concepts &quot;particle&quot; or &quot;wave&quot; to fully describe the behavior of quantum-scale objects.
Whidbey}}
Writers of the Future (WOTF) is a science fiction and fantasy story contest that was established by L. Ron Hubbard in the early 1980s.
In many styles of wrestling, opponents are matched based on weight class.
Web or WEB may refer to:
A web server is a computer system that processes requests via HTTP, the basic network protocol used to distribute information on the World Wide Web. The term can refer to the entire system, or specifically to the software that accepts and supervises the HTTP requests.
In mathematics, a well-order (or well-ordering or well-order relation) on a set S is a total order on S with the property that every non-empty subset of S has a least element in this ordering. The set S together with the well-order relation is then called a well-ordered set.
In mathematics, the well-ordering theorem states that every set can be well-ordered. A set X is well-ordered by a strict total order if every non-empty subset of X has a least element under the ordering.
A weapon, arm, or armament is any device used with intent to inflict damage or harm to living beings, structures, or systems. Weapons are used to increase the efficacy and efficiency of activities such as hunting, crime, law enforcement, self-defense, and warfare.
A wire is a single, usually cylindrical, flexible strand or rod of metal. Wires are used to bear mechanical loads or electricity and telecommunications signals.
A white dwarf, also called a degenerate dwarf, is a stellar core remnant composed mostly of electron-degenerate matter. A white dwarf is very dense: its mass is comparable to that of the Sun, while its volume is comparable to that of Earth.
}}
Walking (also known as ambulation) is one of the main gaits of locomotion among legged animals. Walking is typically slower than running and other gaits.
Wikification may refer to:
)
In physics, a wave is an oscillation accompanied by a transfer of energy that travels through a medium (mass). Frequency refers to the addition of time.
Weak may refer to:
A wing is a type of fin that produces lift, while moving through air or some other fluid. As such, wings have streamlined cross-sections that are subject to aerodynamic forces and act as an airfoils.
A week is a time unit equal to seven days. It is the standard time period used for cycles of rest days in most parts of the world, mostly alongside—although not strictly part of—the Gregorian calendar.
&quot;White trash&quot; is a derogatory American English racial slur referring to poor white people, especially in the rural southern United States. The label signifies lower social class inside the white population and especially a degraded standard of living.
,
Welsh may refer to:
}}
__NOTOC__
A wheel is a circular component that is intended to rotate on an axle bearing. The wheel is one of the main components of the wheel and axle which is one of the six simple machines.
}}
[wipes.ogv|thumb|300px|Examples of various wipe transitions]
The Wizard of Speed and Time is a 1989 low-budget feature film written, directed, and starring animator Mike Jittlov, as well as a 1979 16 mm short film, also by Jittlov.
In mathematics, especially in the area of abstract algebra known as combinatorial group theory, the word problem for a finitely generated group G is the algorithmic problem of deciding whether two words in the generators represent the same element. More precisely, if A is a finite set of generators for G then the word problem is the membership problem for the formal language of all words in A and a formal set of inverses that map to the identity under the natural map from the free monoid with involution on A to the group G.
In number theory, Waring's problem asks whether each natural number k  has an associated positive integer s such that every natural number is the sum of at most s natural numbers to the power of k. For example, every natural number is the sum of at most 4 squares, 9 cubes, or 19 fourth powers.
The Williams tube, or the Williams–Kilburn tube after inventors Freddie Williams (26 June 1911 – 11 August 1977), and Tom Kilburn (11 August 1921 – 17 January 2001), is an early form of computer memory. It was the first random-access digital storage device, and was used successfully in several early computers.
The World Food Programme (WFP; French: Programme alimentaire mondial; Italian: Programma alimentare mondiale; Spanish: Programa Mundial de Alimentos; Arabic: برنامج الأغذية العالمي, barnamaj al'aghdhiat alealami; Russian: Всемирная продовольственная программа, Vsemirnaya prodovol'stvennaya programma; Chinese: 联合国世界粮食计划署, Liánhéguó shìjiè liángshí jìhuà shǔ) is the food-assistance branch of the United Nations and the world's largest humanitarian organization addressing hunger and promoting food security. According to the WFP, it provides food assistance to an average of 80 million people in 75 countries each year.
A work breakdown structure (WBS), in project management and systems engineering, is a deliverable-oriented breakdown of a project into smaller components. A work breakdown structure is a key project deliverable that organizes the team's work into manageable sections.
(Polish &quot;Wrocław - The Meeting Place&quot;)
()
This World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon) list includes prior and scheduled Worldcons.  The data is maintained by the Long List Committee, a World Science Fiction Society sub-committee.
William Topaz McGonagall (March 1825 – 29 September 1902) was a Scottish weaver, poet and actor. He won notoriety as an extremely bad poet who exhibited no recognition of, or concern for, his peers' opinions of his work.
William of Ockham (; also Occam, from ;Jortin, John. Remarks on Ecclesiastical History, Volume 3.
Weightlifting, also called Olympic-style weightlifting, or Olympic weightlifting, is an athletic discipline in the modern Olympic programme in which the athlete attempts a maximum-weight single lift of a barbell loaded with weight plates.
Treaty of Warsaw}}
Wakeboarding is a surface water sport which involves riding a [over the surface of a body of water. The wakeboard is a small, mostly rectangular, thin board with very little displacement and shoe-like bindings mounted to it.
In particle physics, the weak interaction (the weak force or weak nuclear force) is the mechanism of interaction between sub-atomic particles that causes radioactive decay and thus plays an essential role in nuclear fission. The theory of the weak interaction is sometimes called quantum flavourdynamics (QFD), in analogy with the terms QCD dealing with the strong interaction and QED dealing with the electromagnetic force.
; Eutrema japonicum or Wasabia japonica}} is a plant of the Brassicaceae family, which includes cabbages, horseradish, and mustard. It is also called Japanese horseradish, although horseradish is a different plant (which is generally used as a substitute for wasabi, due to the scarcity of the wasabi plant).
Warrant may refer to:
Wends (, Old Norse: Vindr, , , , ) is a historical name for  West Slavs living near Germanic settlement areas. It does not refer to a homogeneous people, but to various peoples, tribes or groups depending on where and when it is used.
A blog (a truncation of the expression &quot;weblog&quot;) is a discussion or informational website published on the World Wide Web consisting of discrete, often informal diary-style text entries (&quot;posts&quot;). Posts are typically displayed in reverse chronological order, so that the most recent post appears first, at the top of the web page.
The Wheel of the Year is an annual cycle of seasonal festivals, observed by many modern Pagans. It consists of either four or eight festivals: either the solstices and equinoxes, known as the &quot;quarter days&quot;, or the four midpoints between, known as the &quot;cross quarter days&quot;; syncretic traditions like Wicca often celebrate all eight festivals.
The Wartburg is a castle overlooking the town of Eisenach, Germany.
Widewuto (also Viduutus, Vidvutus, Witowudi, Waidewut) was a legendary king of the pagan Prussians who ruled along with his elder brother, the high priest Bruteno in the 6th century AD. They are known from writings of 16th-century chroniclers Erasmus Stella, Simon Grunau, and Lucas David.
In mathematics, weak topology is an alternative term for certain initial topologies, often on topological vector spaces or spaces of linear operators, for instance on a Hilbert space. The term is most commonly used for the initial topology of a topological vector space (such as a normed vector space) with respect to its continuous dual.
Work may refer to:
}}
Wilhelm Gustloff (30 January 1895 – 4 February 1936) was the founder of the Swiss NSDAP/AO (the Nazi Party organisation for German citizens abroad) at Davos. He remained its leader from 1932 until he was assassinated in 1936.
William  II may refer to:
William Butler Yeats (; 13 June 186528 January 1939) was an Irish poet and one of the foremost figures of 20th century literature. A pillar of both the Irish and British literary establishments, he helped to found the Abbey Theatre, and in his later years served as an Irish Senator for two terms.
border
Weimar culture was the flourishing of the arts and sciences that happened in Germany during the Weimar Republic, the latter during that part of the interwar period between Germany's defeat in World War I in 1918 and Hitler's rise to power in 1933.Finney (2008)  1920s Berlin was at the hectic center of the Weimar culture.
The wave equation is an important second-order linear hyperbolic partial differential equation for the description of waves—as they occur in classical physics—such as sound waves, light waves and water waves. It arises in fields like acoustics, electromagnetics, and fluid dynamics.
World history, global history or transnational history (not to be confused with diplomatic or international history) is a field of historical study that emerged as a distinct academic field in the 1980s. It examines history from a global perspective.
China
}}
(or 1554)
Database entry includes a brief justification of why this species is considered Vulnerable
Woozy may refer to:
thumb|Unlike culinary [[bananas, wild-type bananas have numerous large, hard seeds.]]
Weakly interacting massive particles (WIMPs) are hypothetical particles that are thought to constitute dark matter. There exists no clear definition of a WIMP, but broadly a WIMP is a new elementary particle which interacts via gravity and any other force (or forces), potentially not part of the standard model itself, which is as weak as or weaker than the weak nuclear force, but also non-vanishing in its strength.
Weregild (also spelled wergild, wergeld (in archaic/historical usage of English), weregeld, etc.), also known as man price, was a value placed on every being and piece of property, for example in the Frankish Salic Code.
World Cup|a more exhaustive list|List of world sports championships}}
This is a list of national capitals in alphabetical order, including territories and dependencies, non-sovereign states including associated states and entities whose sovereignty is disputed. Sovereign states and observer states within the United Nations are shown in bolded text.
This is a list of national capitals in alphabetical order by country:
Cetacea
The Westminster system  is a parliamentary system of government modelled after that which developed in the  United Kingdom. This term comes from the Palace of Westminster, the seat of the British parliament.
Western may refer to:
Wrecking is the practice of taking valuables from a shipwreck which has foundered close to shore. Often an unregulated activity of opportunity in coastal communities, wrecking has been subjected to increasing regulation and evolved into what is now known as marine salvage.
The Wanderer () is a 1964 science fiction novel by Fritz Leiber, published as a paperback original by Ballantine Books. It won the 1965 Hugo Award for Best Novel.
Western Europe is the region comprising the western part of Europe. Below, some different geographic, geopolitical and cultural definitions of the term are outlined.
A werewolfAlso spelled werwolf. Usually pronounced , but also sometimes  or .
}}
}}
right|thumb|upright|Patent no. 388,116 on a [[adding machine|&quot;calculating machine&quot;.
Wash may refer to:
Watchman}}
A whistleblower (also written as whistle-blower or whistle blower) is a person who exposes any kind of information or activity that is deemed illegal, unethical, or not correct within an organization that is either private or public. The information of alleged wrongdoing can be classified in many ways: violation of company policy/rules, law, regulation, or threat to public interest/national security, as well as fraud, and corruption.
Westwood Studios, Inc. was an American video game developer, based in Las Vegas, Nevada.
William Ames (; Latin: Guilielmus Amesius; 1576 – 14 November 1633) was an English Protestant divine, philosopher, and controversialist.  He spent much time in the Netherlands, and is noted for his involvement in the controversy between the Calvinists and the Arminians.
A war of independence is a conflict occurring over a territory that has declared independence. Once the state that previously held the territory sends in military forces to assert its sovereignty or the native population clashes with the former occupier, a separatist rebellion has begun.
A White Russian is a cocktail made with vodka, coffee liqueur (e.g.
Wellington is New Zealand's capital city.
The World Calendar is a proposed reform of the Gregorian calendar created by Elisabeth Achelis of Brooklyn, New York in 1930.
A witch-hunt is a search for suspected or alleged witches, or similar political accusations.
A white wedding is a traditional formal or semi-formal wedding originating in Britain.
The Wannsee Conference () was a meeting of senior government officials of Nazi Germany and Schutzstaffel (SS) leaders, held in the Berlin suburb of Wannsee on 20 January 1942. The purpose of the conference, called by the director of the Reich Main Security Office SS-Obergruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich, was to ensure the cooperation of administrative leaders of various government departments in the implementation of the so-called Final solution to the Jewish question, whereby most of the Jews of German-occupied Europe would be deported to Poland and murdered.
West Point is the United States Military Academy, at West Point, New York.
The term warhead refers to the explosive or toxic material that is delivered by a missile, rocket, or torpedo.
In complex analysis, a branch of mathematics, the Casorati–Weierstrass theorem describes the behaviour of holomorphic functions near their essential singularities. It is named for Karl Theodor Wilhelm Weierstrass and Felice Casorati.
Organisation mondiale du commerce Organización Mundial del Comercio }}
Wenceslaus I ( ; c. 907 – September 28, 935), Wenceslas I, Václav the GoodChristiansen, Rupert.
Winad may refer to:
Woodwind instruments  are a family of musical instruments within the more general category of wind instruments.  There are two main types of woodwind instruments:  flutes and reed instruments (otherwise called reed pipes).
The Woodstock Music &amp; Art Fair—informally, the Woodstock Festival or simply Woodstock—was a music festival attracting an audience of over 400,000 people, scheduled over three days on a dairy farm in New York from August 15 to 17, 1969, but ultimately ran four days long, ending August 18, 1969.
The washtub bass, or gutbucket, is a stringed instrument used in American folk music that uses a metal washtub as a resonator.  Although it is possible for a washtub bass to have four or more strings and tuning pegs, traditional washtub basses have a single string whose pitch is adjusted by pushing or pulling on a staff or stick to change the tension.
thumb|300px|alt=A Wheatstone bridge has four resistors forming the sides of a diamond shape. A battery is connected across one pair of opposite corners, and a galvanometer across the other pair.
A website, or simply site, is a collection of related web pages, including multimedia content, typically identified with a common domain name, and published on at least one web server. A website may be accessible via a public Internet Protocol (IP) network, such as the Internet, or a private local area network (LAN), by referencing a uniform resource locator (URL) that identifies the site.
WIYN Consortium consists of the University of Wisconsin–Madison (W), Indiana University (I), Yale University (Y), and the National Optical Astronomy Observatories (N). The consortium operates two telescopes of 3.
William Ashbless is a fictional poet, invented by fantasy writers James Blaylock and Tim Powers.
Why We Fight is a series of seven propaganda films commissioned by the United States government during World War II to justify to U.S.
The Wiccan Rede  is a statement that provides the key moral system in the Neopagan religion of Wicca and certain other related Witchcraft-based faiths. A common form of the Rede is An it harm none, do what ye will.
Working memory is a cognitive system with a limited capacity that is responsible for temporarily holding information available for processing. Working memory is important for reasoning and the guidance of decision making and behavior.
William Abbot (12 June 1790Katharine Cockin: Abbot, William. In: Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, vol.
Web indexing (or Internet indexing) refers to various methods for indexing the contents of a website or of the Internet as a whole. Individual websites or intranets may use a back-of-the-book index, while search engines usually use keywords and metadata to provide a more useful vocabulary for Internet or onsite searching.
(aged 71)
William I}} (c. 1028Bates William the Conqueror p.
(aged c. 43–44)
(as West Bromwich Strollers)
)
Walnut ink is an ink made from the green husk surrounding the nut of walnuts. The Black Walnut Juglans nigra is usually used.
West Side Story is a musical with a book by Arthur Laurents, music by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and conception and choreography by Jerome Robbins.West Side Story, SondheimGuide.
}}
The  meaning &quot;side inserted [sword]&quot;Ogyû Sorai's Discourse on government (Seidan): an annotated translation, Sorai Ogyū, Otto Harrassowitz Verlag, 1999 P.105 is one of the traditionally made Japanese swords (nihonto)The Development of Controversies: From the Early Modern Period to Online Discussion Forums, Volume 91 of Linguistic Insights.
William (929 – 2 March 968) was Archbishop of Mainz from 17 December 954 until his death. He was the son of the Emperor Otto I the Great and a Slav mother.
3.5–4 million
WordNet is a lexical database for the English language.G.
Wake-on-LAN (WoL) is an Ethernet or token ring computer networking standard that allows a computer to be turned on or awakened by a network message.
}}
thumb|Thunderstorm near Garajau, [[Madeira]]
In the Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy roleplaying game, the wemic is a fantastical hybrid creature with the upper body of a human and the lower body of a lion. Like centaurs, they are considered &quot;tauric&quot; creatures.
The waterfall model is a sequential (non-iterative) design process, used in software development processes, in which progress is seen as flowing steadily downwards (like a waterfall) through the phases of conception, initiation, analysis, design, construction, testing, production/implementation and maintenance.
A war hammer is a late medieval weapon of war intended for close combat action, whose design resembles the hammer. Its appearance is similar to that of an ice axe.
The Treaty of Washington may refer to:
Wulfstan of Hedeby (Latin Haithabu) was a late ninth century traveller and trader. His travel accounts, as well as those of another trader, Ohthere of Hålogaland, were included in Alfred the Great's translation of Orosius' Histories.
A cocktail is a mixed drink typically made with a distilled beverage (such as, gin,  brandy, vodka, whiskey, tequila, or rum) that is mixed with other ingredients.  If beer is one of the ingredients, the drink is called a beer cocktail.
Warmia (, Latin: Varmia, , Old Prussian: Wārmi, ) is a historical region in northern Poland.
on the official NYC website
Early Pleistocene – current
Web design encompasses many different skills and disciplines in the production and maintenance of websites. The different areas of web design include web graphic design; interface design; authoring, including standardised code and proprietary software; user experience design; and search engine optimization.
thumb|Cross-sectional area distribution along the body determines wave drag, largely independent of the actual shape. Although not congruent, the blue and light green shapes are roughly equal in area.
Word grammar is a theory of linguistics, developed by Richard Hudson since the 1980s. It started as a model of syntax, whose most distinctive characteristic is its use of dependency grammar, an approach to syntax in which the sentence's structure is almost entirely contained in the information about individual words, and syntax is seen as consisting primarily of principles for combining words.
}}}}}}
A wormhole is a concept that represents a solution of the Einstein field equations: a non-trivial structure linking separate points in spacetime. A wormhole can be visualized as a tunnel with two ends, each at separate points in spacetime (i.
The phrase web banner is often used to refer to a form of advertising on the World Wide Web delivered by an ad server. It is also known as a banner ad.
2,500 (2002)
A warrant officer (WO) is an officer in a military organisation who is designated an officer by a warrant, as distinguished from a commissioned officer who is designated an officer by a commission, and a non-commissioned officer who is designated an officer, often by virtue of seniority.
A water turbine is a rotary machine that converts kinetic energy and potential energy of water into mechanical work.
White Wolf Publishing is an American roleplaying game and book publisher. The company was founded in 1991 as a merger between Lion RampantA Brief History of Game #10: Lion Rampant: 1987-1990, RPGnet (Retrieved 14 June 2007) and White Wolf Magazine (est.
spurs on the York Volunteers at the battle of Queenston Heights; USS Constitution vs HMS Guerriere; The death of Tecumseh in 1813 ends the Native armed struggle in the American Midwest;  defeats the British assault on New Orleans.
Winter is the coldest season of the year in polar and temperate climates, between autumn and spring. Winter is caused by the axis of the Earth in that hemisphere being oriented away from the Sun.
audio/wav, audio/wave, audio/x-wav
Wilmington may refer to:
the list below}}
The World Games, first held in 1981, are an international multi-sport event, meant for sports, or disciplines or events within a sport, that are not contested in the Olympic Games. The World Games are organised and governed by the International World Games Association (IWGA), recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
The world's tallest artificial structure is the  tall Burj Khalifa in Dubai (of the United Arab Emirates). The building gained the official title of &quot;Tallest Building in the World&quot; and the tallest self supported structure at its opening on January 9, 2010.
Windows Media Audio (WMA) is the name of a series of audio codecs and their corresponding audio coding formats developed by Microsoft. It is a proprietary technology that forms part of the Windows Media framework.
The wolverine (), Gulo gulo (Gulo is Latin for &quot;glutton&quot;), also referred to as the glutton, carcajou, skunk bear, or quickhatch, is the largest land-dwelling species of the family Mustelidae. It is a stocky and muscular carnivore, more closely resembling a small bear than other mustelids.
A warlock is a male practitioner of evil magic (distinguished from a wizard or sorcerer, whose magic may be benign).http://www.
Williams-Mercedes
The Worldwatch Institute is a globally focused environmental research organization based in Washington, D.C.
Unix &amp; Unix-like (Solaris, SunOS, HP-UX, Linux, FreeBSD and EWS-UX (EWS-4800),w3m manual page Windows (with Cygwin)
*industrial metal
Weapons are traits that are used by males to fight one another off for access to mates. A mate is won in battle either by a male chasing off a fellow competitor or killing it off, usually leaving the victor as the only option for the female to reproduce with.
NBC (50%)
}} }}
Xenon is a chemical element with symbol Xe and atomic number 54. It is a colorless, dense, odorless noble gas found in the Earth's atmosphere in trace amounts.
Xenophobia is the fear and distrust of that which is perceived to be foreign or strange. Xenophobia can manifest itself in many ways involving the relations and perceptions of an ingroup towards an outgroup, including a fear of losing identity, suspicion of its activities, aggression, and desire to eliminate its presence to secure a presumed purity.
X (named ex , plural exes&quot;X&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;ex&quot;, op. cit.
From left: Andy Partridge, Colin Moulding, Terry Chambers, and Barry Andrews
The X Window System (X11, or shortened to simply X) is a windowing system for bitmap displays, common on UNIX-like computer operating systems.
Xena is a fictional character from Robert Tapert's Xena: Warrior Princess franchise. Co-created by Tapert and John Schulian, she first appeared in the 1995–1999 television series Hercules: The Legendary Journeys, before going on to appear in Xena: Warrior Princess TV show and subsequent comic book of the same name.
X-ray crystallography is a technique used for determining the atomic and molecular structure of a crystal, in which the crystalline atoms cause a beam of incident X-rays to diffract into many specific directions. By measuring the angles and intensities of these diffracted beams, a crystallographer can produce a three-dimensional picture of the density of electrons within the crystal.
Xenophon of Athens (; , Xenophōn; c. 430–354 BC) was an ancient Greek philosopher], [[historian, soldier and mercenary, and a student of Socrates.
In computing, the term Extensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) is used to refer to a family of
Xingu}}
Xe or XE may refer to:
S&amp;P 500 Component
Xyzzy is a magic word from the Colossal Cave Adventure computer game.xyzzy in the Jargon File.
Aveh may refer to:
Kislev (Hebrew: כִּסְלֵו, Standard Kislev Tiberian Kislēw; also Chislev) is the third month of the civil year and the ninth month of the ecclesiastical year on the Hebrew calendar.
(as X386)
XP may refer to:
XyWrite is a word processor for MS-DOS and Windows modeled on the mainframe-based ATEX typesetting system. Popular with writers and editors for its speed and degree of customization, XyWrite was in its heyday the house word processor in many editorial offices, including the New York Times from 1989 to 1993.
X-radiation (composed of X-rays) is a form of electromagnetic radiation. Most X-rays have a wavelength ranging from 0.
and so cannot be subject to patent claims.  The pre-586 subset of the x86 architecture is therefore fully open.
]
XXX may refer to:
XSLT (Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations) is a language for transforming XML documents into other XML documents, or other formats such as HTML for web pages, plain text or XSL Formatting Objects, which may subsequently be converted to other formats, such as PDF, PostScript and PNG. XSLT 1.
X-Ray Spex were an English punk band from London that formed in 1976.
}}
In some countries, X or XXX is or has been a motion picture rating reserved for the most explicit films. Films rated X are intended only for viewing by adults, usually defined as people over the age of 18 or 21.
The southern platyfish, common platy, or moonfish (Xiphophorus maculatus) is a species of freshwater fish in family Poeciliidae of order Cyprinodontiformes.  A live-bearer, it is closely related to the green swordtail (X.
Yahoos are legendary beings in the novel Gulliver's Travels (1726) by Jonathan Swift.
Yunus Emre () (1238–1320) was a Turkish poet and Sufi mystic who greatly influenced Anatolian culture. His name, Yunus, is equivalent to the English name Jonas.
Ytterbium is a chemical element with symbol Yb and atomic number 70. It is the fourteenth and penultimate element in the lanthanide series, which is the basis of the relative stability of its +2 oxidation state.
Ytterby () is a village on the Swedish island of Resarö, in Vaxholm Municipality in the Stockholm archipelago.
thumb|300px|The informal public [[imperial units|imperial measurement standards erected at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, London, in the 19th century: 1 British yard, 2 feet, 1 foot, 6 inches, and 3 inches. The inexact monument was designed to permit rods of the correct measure to fit snugly into its pins at an ambient temperature of 62 °F (16.
Y (named wyeAlso spelled wy. , plural wyes)&quot;Y&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;wy&quot;, op.
Yugoslavia (Југославија ;  ;  ) was a country in Southeast Europe during most of the 20th century. It came into existence after World War I in 1918 under the name of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes by the merger of the provisional State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs (itself formed from territories of the former Austro-Hungarian Empire) with the formerly independent Kingdom of Serbia.
thumb|upright|Sabaean inscription addressed to the moon-god [[Almaqah, mentioning five South Arabian gods, two reigning sovereigns, and two governors, 7th century BCE.]]
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Yemen, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Yemen is in an uncertain state due to a 2014–15 coup d'état. An armed group known as the Houthis or Ansar Allah seized control of the Yemeni government and announced it would dissolve parliament, as well as install a &quot;presidential council&quot;, &quot;transitional national council&quot;, and &quot;supreme revolutionary council&quot; to govern the country for an interim period.
}}
The foreign relations of Yemen are the relationships and policies that Yemen maintains with other countries. It is a member of the United Nations, the Arab League, and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
}}
Yoga (; Sanskrit, योगः Listen) is a group of physical, mental, and spiritual practices or disciplines which originated in ancient India. There is a broad variety of yoga schools, practices, and goals in Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism.
Among programmers, yet another (often abbreviated ya, Ya or YA in the initial part of an acronym) is an idiomatic qualifier in the name of a computer program, organisation, or event that is confessedly unoriginal.
Yggdrasil ( or ; from Old Norse , pronounced ) is an immense mythical tree that connects the nine worlds in Norse cosmology.
,  or  yidish/idish/yidish
The yottabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. The prefix yotta indicates multiplication by the eighth power of 1000 or 1024 in the International System of Units (SI), and therefore one yottabyte is one septillion (one long scale quadrillion) bytes.
Yeast extract is the common name for various forms of processed yeast products made by extracting the cell contents (removing the cell walls); they are used as food additives or flavorings, or as nutrients for bacterial culture media. They are often used to create savoury flavours and umami taste sensations, and can be found in a large variety of packaged food including frozen meals, crackers, snack foods, gravy, stock and more.
Yule or Yuletide (&quot;Yule time&quot;) is a festival observed by the historical Germanic peoples. Scholars have connected the celebration to the Wild Hunt, the god Odin, and the pagan Anglo-Saxon .
Yachting refers to the use of recreational boats and ships called yachts for sporting purposes. Yachts are different from working ships mainly by their leisure purpose.
right|thumb|Aerial view of a [[yacht club and marina - Yacht Harbour Residence &quot;Hohe Düne&quot; in Rostock, Germany]]
Y Combinator may refer to:
Yamaha may refer to:
* Park County, Wyoming
A year is the orbital period of the Earth moving in its orbit around the Sun. Due to the Earth's axial tilt, the course of a year sees the passing of the seasons, marked by changes in weather, the hours of daylight, and, consequently, vegetation and soil fertility.
&quot;Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus&quot; is a phrase from an editorial called Is There a Santa Claus?. The editorial appeared in the September 21, 1897, edition of The (New York) Sun and has since become part of popular Christmas folklore in the United States.
(վարդագույն քաղաք  vardaguyn k'aghak' , literally &quot;rosy city&quot;)
Yacc (Yet Another Compiler-Compiler) is a computer program for the Unix operating system.  It is a Look Ahead Left-to-Right (LALR) parser generator, generating a parser, the part of a compiler that tries to make syntactic sense of the source code, specifically a LALR parser, based on an analytic grammar written in a notation similar to Backus–Naur Form (BNF).
In mathematics, specifically in category theory, the Yoneda lemma is an abstract result on functors of the type morphisms into a fixed object. It is a vast generalisation of Cayley's theorem from group theory (viewing a group as a particular kind of category with just one object).
}}
thumb|280px|Fujiwara no Yoshifusa by [[Kikuchi Yōsai]]
Yellow journalism, or the yellow press, is a type of journalism that presents little or no legitimate well-researched news and instead uses eye-catching headlines to sell more newspapers.  Techniques may include exaggerations of news events, scandal-mongering or sensationalism.
Yersinia pestisSutyak, Katya. &quot;Yersinia Pestis.
Yellow No. 5}}
thumb|right|Ethnic map of Serbia
The Politics of Serbia and Montenegro took place in a framework of a federal parliamentary republic with a multi-party system, and after 2003, in the context of a state union. The President was both head of state and, following constitutional reforms in 2003, head of government.
Serbia and Montenegro was a confederated union which existed between 2003 and 2006. The two republics initially formed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in 1992.
Telecommunication in Serbia is an important economic sector, accounting for 4.7% of country's GDP in 2015.
Transport in Serbia includes transport by road, rail, water and air. Road transport incorporates a comprehensive network of major (i.
Since the breakup of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the early 1990s, the foreign policy of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (renamed Serbia and Montenegro in 2003) was characterized primarily by a desire to secure its political and geopolitical position and the solidarity of ethnic Serbs in the Balkan region through a strong nationalist campaign. Since October 2000, the country has worked to stabilize and strengthen its bilateral relationships with neighboring countries.
thumb|125px|Capital yogh (left), lowercase yogh (right)
or
Yeasts are eukaryotic, single-celled microorganisms classified as members of the fungus kingdom. The first yeast  originated hundreds of millions of years ago, and 1,500 species are currently identified.
The Yarra Valley is the name given to the region surrounding the Yarra River in Victoria, Australia. The river originates approximately 90 kilometres east of the Melbourne central business district and flows towards it and out into Port Phillip Bay.
The Yule log, Yule clog, or Christmas block is a specially selected log burnt on a hearth as a Christmas tradition in a number of countries in Europe. The origin of the folk custom is unclear.
Zeus (;Oxford English Dictionary, 1st ed. &quot;Zeus, n.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Zimbabwe, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
The politics of Zimbabwe takes place in a framework of a full presidential republic, whereby the President is the head of state and government as organized by the 2013 Constitution. Executive power is exercised by the government.
}}
The foreign relations of Zimbabwe emphasize a close relationship with the People's Republic of China and South Africa, nations with close economic ties to Zimbabwe.
The zodiac is an area of the sky centred upon the ecliptic, the apparent path of the Sun across the celestial sphere over the course of the year. The paths of the Moon and visible planets also remain close to the ecliptic, within the belt of the zodiac, which extends 8–9° north or south of the ecliptic, as measured in celestial latitude.
Zoology (, zoo-OL-luh-jee or , zoh-OL-luh-jee) or animal biology is the branch of biology that studies the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct, and how they interact with their ecosystems. The term is derived from Ancient Greek ζῷον, zōion, i.
God has blessed us
Late Cretaceous - Recent
In game theory and economic theory, a zero-sum game is a mathematical representation of a situation in which each participant's gain or loss of utility is exactly balanced by the losses or gains of the utility of the other participants. If the total gains of the participants are added up and the total losses are subtracted, they will sum to zero.
Zork is one of the earliest interactive fiction computer games, with roots drawn from the original genre game, Colossal Cave Adventure. The first version of Zork was written between 1977 and 1979 using the MDL programming language on a DEC PDP-10 computer.
Zinc is a chemical element with symbol Zn and atomic number 30. It is the first element in group 12 of the periodic table.
Zirconium is a chemical element with symbol Zr and atomic number 40. The name zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium.
The Nissan Z-car is a sports car which has been manufactured by Nissan Motors Ltd, in six generations, since 1969.
Z (named zed  or zee &quot;Z&quot;, Oxford English Dictionary, 2nd edition (1989); Merriam-Webster's Third New International Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged (1993); &quot;zee&quot;, op. cit.
Zippy the Pinhead is a fictional character who is the protagonist of Zippy, an American comic strip created by Bill Griffith. Zippy's most famous quotation, &quot;Are we having fun yet?
This article deals with the history of the country now called Zambia from prehistoric times to the present.
thumb|450px|Zambia's population (1961-2008).
The politics of Zambia takes place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Zambia is head of state, head of government and leader of a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government, while legislative power is vested in both the government and parliament.
The Zambian Defence Force consists of the Zambia Army, the Zambia Air Force and Zambia National Service, a training and public works organisation. The Zambian Defence Force is established for the defence of Zambia.
After independence in 1964 the foreign relations of Zambia were mostly focused on supporting liberation movements in other countries in Southern Africa, such as the African National Congress and SWAPO. During the Cold War Zambia was a member of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Zoonoses (, plural -, also spelled zoönoses; singular zoonosis (or zoönosis); from Greek: ζῷον zoon &quot;animal&quot; and νόσος nosos &quot;sickness&quot;) are infectious diseases of animals (usually vertebrates) that can naturally be transmitted to humans.
A Zeppelin was a type of rigid airship named after the German Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin () who pioneered rigid airship development at the beginning of the 20th century. Zeppelin's notions were first formulated in 1874Eckener 1938, pp.
A zygote (from Greek ζυγωτός zygōtos &quot;joined&quot; or &quot;yoked&quot;, from ζυγοῦν zygoun &quot;to join&quot; or &quot;to yoke&quot;), is an eukaryotic cell formed by a fertilization event between two gametes. The zygote's genome is a combination of the DNA in each gamete, and contains all of the genetic information necessary to form a new individual.
right|thumb|The Zocchihedron is approximately  in diameter
Zorn is a family name of German origin meaning &quot;wrath&quot;. Historically, it was predominantly strong in German influenced cities such as Strasbourg, Kempten, Innsbruck, and Würzburg.
Zosimus ( ; also known by the Latin name Zosimus Historicus, i.e.
Zakat ( zakāt, &quot;that which purifies&quot;, also Zakat al-mal , &quot;zakat on wealth&quot;, or &quot;Zakah&quot;) is a form of alms-giving treated in Islam as a religious obligation or tax, which, by Quranic ranking, is next after prayer (salat) in importance.
The zettabyte is a multiple of the unit byte for digital information. The prefix zetta indicates multiplication by the seventh power of 1000 or 1021 in the International System of Units (SI).
See  for subspecies.
The Z80 CPU is an 8-bit based microprocessor. It was introduced by Zilog in 1976 as the startup company's first product.
Zechariah (; , &quot;YHWH has remembered&quot;;  Zakariya' or Zakkariya;  Zakharias; ) was a person in the Hebrew Bible and traditionally considered the author of the Book of Zechariah, the eleventh of the Twelve Minor Prophets. He was a prophet of the two-tribe Kingdom of Judah, and, like the prophet Ezekiel, was of priestly extraction.
Zeta Instrument Processor Interface (ZIPI) was a research project initiated by Zeta Instruments and UC Berkeley's CNMAT (Center for New Music and Audio Technologies). Introduced in 1994 in a series of publications in  Computer Music Journal from MIT Press, ZIPI was intended as the next-generation transport protocol for digital musical instruments, designed with compliance to the OSI model.
The Zohar (, lit. &quot;Splendor&quot; or &quot;Radiance&quot;) is the foundational work in the literature of Jewish mystical thought known as Kabbalah.
Nguni stick-fighting (also known as donga, or dlala 'nduku, which literally translates as 'playing sticks') is a martial art traditionally practiced by teenage Nguni herdboys in South Africa. Each combatant is armed with two long sticks, one of which is used for defense and the other for offense.
Crisp (6 March 1981)
A Ziegler–Natta catalyst, named after Karl Ziegler and Giulio Natta, is a catalyst used in the synthesis of polymers of 1-alkenes (alpha-olefins). Two broad classes of Ziegler–Natta catalysts are employed, distinguished by their solubility:
Zionism ( Tsiyyonut  after Zion) is the national movement of the Jewish people that supports the re-establishment of a Jewish homeland in the territory defined as the historic Land of Israel (roughly corresponding to Canaan, the Holy Land, or the region of Palestine). nationalistic movement|access-date=June 30, 2016}} Modern Zionism emerged in the late 19th century in Central and Eastern Europe as a national revival movement, in reaction to anti-Semitic and exclusionary nationalist movements in Europe.
thumb|right|250px|Poster of [[Doña Francisquita]]
PCSega SaturnGame BoySega GenesisGame GearAtari JaguarSuper NESApple Macintosh
Zephaniah (, ) is the name of several people in the Hebrew Bible and Jewish Tanakh.  His name is commonly transliterated Sophonias in Bibles translated from the Vulgate or Septuagint.
or
On Unix and Unix-like computer operating systems, a zombie process or defunct process is a process that has completed execution (via the exit system call) but still has an entry in the process table: it is a process in the &quot;Terminated state&quot;. This occurs for child processes, where the entry is still needed to allow the parent process to read its child's exit status: once the exit status is read via the  wait system call, the zombie's entry is removed from the process table and it is said to be &quot;reaped&quot;.
}}
)}}, nought, naught, nil
Poland
The Z notation  is a formal specification language used for describing and modelling computing systems. It is targeted at the clear specification of computer programs and computer-based systems in general.
In chemistry, a zwitterion ( ; from German zwitter , meaning &quot;hermaphrodite&quot;), formerly called a dipolar ion, is a neutral molecule with both positive and negative electrical charges. (In some cases multiple positive and negative charges may be present.
Zhu Shijie (, 1249–1314), courtesy name Hanqing (), pseudonym Songting (), was one of the greatest Chinese mathematicians living during the Yuan Dynasty.
A zoetrope is one of several pre-film animation devices that produce the illusion of motion by displaying a sequence of drawings or photographs showing progressive phases of that motion.
Zodiacal light is a faint, diffuse, and roughly triangular white glow visible in the night sky that appears to extend from the vicinity of the Sun along the ecliptic or zodiac.Internet Encyclopedia of Science Accessed April 2010 It is caused by sunlight scattered by space dust in the zodiacal cloud.
Zamenhof Day (), also called Esperanto Day, is celebrated on 15 December, the birthday of Esperanto creator L. L.
In mathematics, a zeta function is (usually) a function analogous to the original example: the Riemann zeta function
Zoroastrianism, or more natively Mazdayasna, is one of the world's oldest extant religions, &quot;combining a cosmogonic dualism and eschatological monotheism in a manner unique [...] among the major religions of the world&quot;.
Zeno is the common anglicised form of the Greek name Zenon (), derived from the theonym Zeus.  It may refer to:
Zeno's paradoxes are a set of philosophical problems generally thought to have been devised by Greek philosopher Zeno of Elea (ca. 490–430 BC) to support Parmenides' doctrine that contrary to the evidence of one's senses, the belief in plurality and change is mistaken, and in particular that motion is nothing but an illusion.
Zero-based numbering or index origin = 0 is a way of numbering in which the initial element of a sequence is assigned the index 0, rather than the index 1 as is typical in everyday non-mathematical/non-programming circumstances. Under zero-based numbering, the initial element is sometimes termed the zeroth element, rather than the first element; zeroth is a coined ordinal number corresponding to the number zero.
The 1960s (pronounced &quot;nineteen-sixties&quot;) was a decade that began on 1 January 1960, and ended on 31 December 1969.Joshua Zeitz &quot;1964: The Year the Sixties Began&quot;, American Heritage, Oct.
2000 was designated as:
== Events ==
==Events==
2001 was designated as:
1999 was designated as the International Year of Older Persons.
File:1970s decade montage.png| U.
File:1990s decade montage.png|From left, clockwise: The Hubble Space Telescope orbits the earth after it was launched in 1990; American F-16s and F-15s fly over burning oil fields in Operation Desert Storm, also known as the 1991 Gulf War; The signing of the Oslo Accords on 13 September 1993; The World Wide Web gains a public face during the start of decade and as a result gains massive popularity worldwide; Boris Yeltsin and followers stand on a tank in defiance to the August Coup, which leads to the dissolution of the Soviet Union on 26 December 1991; Dolly the sheep is the first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell; The funeral procession of Diana, Princess of Wales, who dies in 1997 from a car crash in Paris, and is mourned by millions; Hundreds of thousands are killed in the Rwandan Genocide of 1994.
File:1980s replacement montage02.PNG|thumb|300px|From left, clockwise: The first Space Shuttle, Columbia, lifted off in 1981; American president Ronald Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev eased tensions between the two superpowers, leading to the end of the Cold War; The fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 is considered to be one of the most momentous events of the 1980s; In 1981, the IBM Personal Computer is released; In 1985, the Live Aid concert was held in order to fund relief efforts for the famine in Ethiopia during the time Mengistu Haile Mariam ruled the country; Ukraine and much of the world is filled with radioactive debris from the 1986 Chernobyl disaster; The Iran–Iraq War leads to over one million dead and $1 trillion spent.
The 20th century was a century that began on
Death Rates in the 20th century is the ratio of deaths compared to the population around the world throughout the 20th century.  When giving these ratios, they are most commonly expressed by number of deaths per 1,000 people per year.
Year 1040 (MXL) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 15th century was the century which spans the Julian years 1401 to 1500.
The 16th century begins with the Julian year 1501 and ends with either the Julian or the Gregorian year 1600 (depending on the reckoning used; the Gregorian calendar introduced a lapse of 10 days in October 1582).Modern reference works on the period tend to follow the introduction of the Gregorian calendar for the sake of clarity; thus NASA's lunar eclipse catalogue states &quot;The Gregorian calendar is used for all dates from 1582 Oct 15 onwards.
The 17th century was the century that lasted from January 1, 1601, to December 31, 1700, in the Gregorian calendar.
The 18th century lasted from January 1, 1701 to December 31, 1800 in the Gregorian calendar. During the 18th century, the Enlightenment culminated in the French and American revolutions.
The 1950s (pronounced nineteen-fifties; commonly abbreviated as the 50s or Fifties) was a decade of the Gregorian calendar that began on January 1, 1950, and ended on December 31, 1959.
The 1870s continued the trends of the previous decade, as new empires, imperialism and militarism rose in Europe and Asia. The United States was recovering from the American Civil War.
== Events ==
== Events ==
2000s}}
__NOTOC__
File:1940s decade montage.png|Above title bar: events during World War II (1939–1945): From left to right: Troops in an LCVP landing craft approaching Omaha Beach on D-Day; Adolf Hitler visits Paris, soon after the Battle of France; The Holocaust occurred during the war as Nazi Germany carried out a programme of systematic state-sponsored genocide, during which approximately six million European Jews were killed; The Japanese attack on the American naval base of Pearl Harbor launches the United States into the war; An Observer Corps spotter scans the skies of London during the Battle of Britain; The atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki are the first uses of nuclear weapons, killing over a quarter million people and leading to the Japanese surrender; Japanese Foreign Minister Mamoru Shigemitsu signs the Instrument of Surrender on behalf of the Japanese Government, on board , effectively ending the war.
==Events==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1492 (MCDXCII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
According to NASA reports, 1908 was the coldest recorded year since 1880.NASA - GISS Surface Temperature Analysis (GISTEMP)
== Events ==
==Events==
The electoral threshold is the minimum share of the primary vote which a candidate or political party requires to achieve before they become entitled to any representation in a legislature. This limit can operate in various ways.
==Events==
A highlight was the race for the South Pole.
==Events==
}}
==Events==
==Events==
The year is associated with the first manned landing on the Moon (Apollo 11).
According to tradition (hadith), there are 99 names of God in Islam, known as the  (}}) &quot;Beautiful Names of God&quot; (also }} &quot;Beautiful Names&quot;).Abdullah Saeed, The Quran: An Introduction, pg.
==Events==
File:1930s decade montage.png|From left, clockwise: Dorothea Lange's photo of the homeless Florence Thompson show the effects of the Great Depression; Due to the extreme drought conditions, the farms become dry and the Dust Bowl spreads through America; The Canton Operation during the Second Sino-Japanese War; Aviator Amelia Earhart becomes an American flight icon; German dictator Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party attempted to establish a New Order of absolute Nazi German hegemony in Europe, which culminated in 1939 when Germany invaded Poland, leading to the outbreak of World War II; The Hindenburg explodes over a small New Jerseian airfield, causing 36 deaths and effectively ending commercial airship travel; Mohandas Gandhi walks to the Arabian Sea in the protest Salt March of 1930.
This year also marks the start of the Second World War, the deadliest conflict in human history.
File:1920s decade montage.png|From left, clockwise: Third Tipperary Brigade Flying Column No.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1900s (pronounced &quot;nineteen-hundreds&quot;) was a decade of the Gregorian calendar that began on January 1, 1900, and ended on December 31, 1909. The term &quot;nineteen-hundreds&quot; can also equally be used for the years 1900–1999 (see 1900s).
== Events ==
File:1910s montage.png|From left, clockwise: The Model T Ford is introduced and becomes widespread; The sinking of the Titanic causes the deaths of nearly 1,500 people and attracts global and historical attention; Title bar: All the events below are part of World War I (1914–1918); French Army lookout at his observation post in 1917; Russian troops awaiting a German attack; A ration party of the Royal Irish Rifles in a communication trench during the Battle of the Somme; Vladimir Lenin addresses a crowd in the midst of the October Revolution of 1917; A flu pandemic in 1918 kills tens of millions worldwide.
==Events==
==Events==
As a means of recording the passage of time, the 14th century was the century lasting from January 1, 1301, to December 31, 1400.  Political and natural disasters ravaged both Europe and the four khanates of the Mongol Empire.
The 1860s were an extremely different decade with numerous cultural, social, and political upheavals in Europe and America. Revolutions were prevalent in Germany and the Ottoman Empire.
== Events ==
The 1st century was the century that lasted from AD 1 to AD 100 according to the Julian calendar. It is often written as the in violation of the general rule that the abbreviation AD should precede the date in question.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
thumb|300px|Map of [[Eurasia circa 1200 A.D.
== Events ==
Important events of 1990 include the Reunification of Germany and the unification of Yemen, the formal beginning of the Human Genome Project (finished in 2003), the launch of the Hubble Space Telescope, the separation of Namibia from South Africa, and the Baltic states declaring independence from the Soviet Union amidst Perestroika. Yugoslavia's communist regime collapses amidst increasing internal tensions and multiparty elections held within its constituent republics result in separatist governments being elected in most of the republics marking the beginning of the breakup of Yugoslavia.
1996 was designated as:
As the second year of the massive Russo-Japanese War began, more than 100,000 died in the largest world battles of that era, and the war chaos lead to a revolution against the Tsar. (Shostakovich's 11th Symphony is subtitled &quot;The Year 1905&quot; to commemorate this.
In the United States, a 401(k) plan is the tax-qualified, defined-contribution pension account defined in subsection 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, retirement savings contributions are provided (and sometimes proportionately matched) by an employer, deducted from the employee's paycheck before taxation (therefore tax-deferred until withdrawn after retirement or as otherwise permitted by applicable law), and limited to a maximum pre-tax annual contribution of $18,000 (as of 2017).
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 397 (CCCXCVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesarius and Atticus (or, less frequently, year 1150 Ab urbe condita).
The 4th century (per the Julian calendar and Anno Domini/Common era) was the time period which lasted from 301 to 400. In the West, the early part of the century was shaped by Constantine the Great, who became the first Roman emperor to convert to Christianity.
thumb|277px|Eastern Hemisphere at the beginning of the 12th century.
thumb|300px|Political boundaries in [[Eastern Hemisphere in early half of 11th century]]
== Events ==
1998 was designated as the International Year of the Ocean.
==Events==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
As of March 1 (O.S.
==Events==
This was the year of the Protests of 1968.
This year marked the end of a period known in American history as the Roaring Twenties after the Wall Street Crash of 1929 ushered in a worldwide Great Depression. In the Americas, an agreement was brokered to end the Cristero War, a Catholic counter-revolution in Mexico.
This was the year that the Internet entered public consciousness and also the year it was completely privatized and the United States Government no longer funded it with public money - in April 1995 the NSFNET was retired. America Online and Prodigy offered access to the World Wide Web system for the first time this year, releasing browsers that made it easily accessible to the general public.
As MAD Magazine pointed out on its cover for the March 1961 issue, this was the first &quot;upside-up&quot; year — i.e.
Year 1564 (MDLXIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Events==
==Events==
It is also known as the &quot;Year of Africa&quot; because of major events—particularly the independence of seventeen African nations—that focused global attention on the continent and intensified feelings of Pan-Africanism.
== Events ==
It is historically famous for the wave of revolutions, a series of widespread struggles for more liberal governments, which broke out from Brazil to Hungary; although most failed in their immediate aims, they significantly altered the political and philosophical landscape and had major ramifications throughout the rest of the century.
1866 saw the start of the Irish famine, wars in central Europe, and the economic panic brought about by London bank collapse.
== Events ==
1992 was designated as:
In the 20th century, the year 1988 has the most Roman numeral digits (11).
Within the context of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) it was the longest year ever, as two leap seconds were added during this 366-day year, an event which has not since been repeated. (If its start and end are defined using mean solar time [the legal time scale], its duration was 31622401.
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
== Events ==
500 or Five Hundred is a trick-taking game that is an extension of EuchrePeter Arnold, The Book of Card Games, , p. 122 with some ideas from Bridge.
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
It is the year of the Peace of Westphalia.
Year 1572 (MDLXXII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
The 1490's decade ran from January 1, 1490, to December 31, 1499.
The 1640's decade ran from January 1, 1640, to December 31, 1649.
The 1770's decade ran from January 1, 1770, to December 31, 1779.
The 1780's decade ran from January 1, 1780, to December 31, 1789.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1840s was a really active and extremely turbulent decade that ran from January 1, 1840, to December 31, 1849. Throughout the decade, many countries (particularly in Europe) worldwide saw many revolts and uprisings, with the most prominent ones  happening in 1848.
== Events ==
The 1800s decade lasted from January 1, 1800, to December 31, 1809.
It was the year that is usually considered the final year of the Cold War that had begun in the late 1940s. During the year, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics collapsed into fifteen sovereign republics.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Tuesday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
The 1700s decade ran from January 1, 1700, to December 31, 1709.
== Events ==
In Germany, 1888 is known as the Year of the Three Emperors. Currently, it is the year that, when written in Roman numerals, has the most digits (13).
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1760's decade ran from January 1, 1760, to December 31, 1769.
== Events ==
Year 1282 (MCCLXXXII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
== Events ==
The 1730's decade ran from January 1, 1730, to December 31, 1739.
The 1740's decade ran from January 1, 1740, to December 31, 1749.
The 1790's decade ran from January 1, 1790, to December 31, 1799.
The 1890s, which began on 1 January 1890 and ended on 31 December 1899, were sometimes referred to as the &quot;Mauve Decade&quot; – because William Henry Perkin's aniline dye allowed the widespread use of that colour in fashion – and also as the &quot;Gay Nineties&quot;, referring to the fact that it was full of merriment and optimism. The phrase, &quot;The Gay Nineties,&quot; was not coined until the 1920s.
The 1850s was a decade that ran from January 1, 1850, to December 31, 1859. The 1850s was a very turbulent decade, as wars such as the Crimean War, shifted and shook European politics, as well as the expansion of colonization towards the Far East, which also sparked conflicts like the Second Opium War.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
The 7th century is the period from 601 to 700 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. The Muslim conquests began with the unification of Arabia by Muhammad starting in 622.
==Significant people==
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere at the beginning of the 10th century
The 9th century is the period from 801 to 900 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era.
The 8th century is the period from 701 to 800 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. In the Middle East, the coast of North Africa and the Iberian Peninsula quickly come under Islamic Arab domination.
The 6th century is the period from 501 to 600 in accordance with the Julian calendar in the Common Era. In the West this century marks the end of Classical Antiquity and the beginning of the Middle Ages.
The 5th century is the time period from 401 to 500 in accordance with the Julian calendar in Anno Domini / Common Era. The 5th century is noted for being a time of repeated disaster and instability both internally and externally for the Western Roman Empire, which finally collapsed, and came to an end in 476 AD.
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere at the beginning of the 3rd century AD.
thumb|250px|Eastern Hemisphere at the beginning of the 2nd century AD.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The world population increased by 2.1% this year; the highest in history.
== Events ==
==Events==
==Events==
It was also declared the International Women's Year by the United Nations and the European Architectural Heritage Year by the Council of Europe.
== Events ==
== Events ==
The year 1983 saw both the official beginning of the Internet and the first mobile cellular telephone call.
== Events ==
Year 1573 (MDLXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 1570's decade ran from January 1, 1570, to December 31, 1579.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
The year 1986 was designated as the International Year of Peace by the United Nations.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1720's decade ran from January 1, 1720, to December 31, 1729.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
}}
==Events==
==Events==
== Events ==
Year 1436 (MCDXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1476 (MCDLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
The 1540's decade ran from January 1, 1540, to December 31, 1549.
== Events ==
This year was named by Mitchell Stephens as the greatest year to read newspapers.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1830s decade ran from January 1, 1830, to December 31, 1839.
The 1820s decade ran from January 1, 1820, to December 31, 1829.
The 1810s decade ran from January 1, 1810, to December 31, 1819.
The 4th century BC started the first day of 400 BC and ended the last day of 301 BC. It is considered part of the Classical era, epoch, or historical period.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 623 (DCXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 623 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 19 (XIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Balbus (or, less frequently, year 772 Ab urbe condita).
AD 37 (XXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Proculus and Pontius (or, less frequently, year 790 Ab urbe condita).
AD 68 (LXVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Asconius and Thraculus, or the start of the Year of the Four Emperors (or, less frequently, year 821 Ab urbe condita).
AD 69 (LXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 822 Ab urbe condita).
AD 43 (XLIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Vitellius (or, less frequently, year 796 Ab urbe condita).
AD 41 (XLI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of C.
AD 54 (LIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lentulus and Marcellus (or, less frequently, year 807 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 81 (LXXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silva and Pollio (or, less frequently, year 834 Ab urbe condita).
OS}}
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere in AD 50.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
The 90s was the final decade of the 1st century.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==East Asia==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere at the beginning of the 1st century BC.
}}
}}
The 5th century BC started the first day of 500 BC and ended the last day of 401 BC.
The 6th century  BC started the first day of 600 BC and ended the last day of 501 BC.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The year 1985 was designated as the International Youth Year by the United Nations.
1989 was a turning point in political history because a wave of revolutions swept the Eastern Bloc, starting in Poland that summer with the beginning of a move towards private enterprise, coming to a head with the opening of the Berlin Wall in November, embracing the overthrow of the communist dictatorship in Romania in December, and ending in December 1991 with the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Collectively known as the Revolutions of 1989, they heralded the beginning of the post–Cold War period.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 321 (CCCXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Crispus and Constantinus (or, less frequently, year 1074 Ab urbe condita).
==Events==
The 21st century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2100 BC to 2001 BC.
The 11th century BC comprises all years from 1100 BC to 1001 BC.  Although many human societies were literate in this period, some of the individuals mentioned below may be apocryphal rather than historically accurate.
__NOTOC__
==Births==
== Events ==
AD 9 (IX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sabinus and Camerinus (or, less frequently, 762 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
Year 1582 (MDLXXXII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar, and a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Proleptic Gregorian calendar. However, this year also saw the beginning of the Gregorian Calendar switch, when the Papal bull known as Inter gravissimas introduced the Gregorian calendar, adopted by Spain, Portugal, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and most of present-day Italy from the start.
In the British Empire, it was the only year with 355 days, as 3–13 September were skipped when the Empire adopted the Gregorian calendar.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
The 1000s was a decade of the Julian Calendar which began on January 1, 1000, and ended on December 31, 1009.
Year 1000 (M) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. In the proleptic Gregorian calendar, it was a non-leap century year starting on Wednesday (like 1800).
==Significant people==
Year 1299 (MCCXCIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1326 (MCCCXXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1359 (MCCCLIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1389 (MCCCLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1402 (MCDII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1403 (MCDIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1421 (MCDXXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1451 (MCDLI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1481 (MCDLXXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
Year 1512 (MDXII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
It was also a particularly cold and wet year. Contemporary records claim that wine froze in the glasses in the Palace of Versailles.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Thursday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 1690's decade ran from January 1, 1690, to December 31, 1699.
The 1680's decade ran from January 1, 1680, to December 31, 1689.
The 1620's decade ran from January 1, 1620, to December 31, 1629.
== Events ==
==Events==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1154 (MCLIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1163 (MCLXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
AD 70 (LXX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Vespasianus (or, less frequently, year 823 Ab urbe condita).
The 1630's decade ran from January 1, 1630, to December 31, 1639.
== Events ==
==Events==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 385 (CCCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Bauto (or, less frequently, year 1138 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1531 (MDXXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1380 (MCCCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1465 (MCDLXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
As of March 1 (O.S.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1141 (MCXLI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Events==
== Events ==
Year 1135 (MCXXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1204 (MCCIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1469 (MCDLXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 1520's decade ran from January 1, 1520, to December 31, 1529.
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 31 (XXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tiberius and Sejanus (or, less frequently, year 784 Ab urbe condita).
==Significant people==
==Events and trends==
The 7th century BC began the first day of 700 BC and ended the last day of 601 BC.
}}
== Events ==
The 1600's decade ran from January 1, 1600, to December 31, 1609.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 1500 (MD) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
7.62 mm caliber is a nominal caliber used for a number of different cartridges.
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Births==
==Significant people==
The 1750's decade ran from January 1, 1750, to December 31, 1759.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
The 1710's decade ran from January 1, 1710, to December 31, 1719.
==Significant people==
== Events ==
Year 1079 (MLXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1142 (MCXLII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1066 (MLXVI) was a common year starting on Sunday of the Julian calendar. The year was a turning point in English history due to the Battle of Hastings and ensuing Norman conquest of England.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Scott PelleyLesley StahlBill WhitakerSee Correspondents below
== Events ==
Year 1087 (MLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
AD 96 (XCVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Valens and Vetus (or, less frequently, year 849 Ab urbe condita).
It is known in European history as a rather tumultuous year with the Revolutions of 1830 in France, Belgium, Poland, Switzerland and Italy.
== Events ==
== Events ==
After thirteen years the First French Empire abolished the French Republican Calendar in favour of the Gregorian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1473 (MCDLXXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
Year 1571 (MDLXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
January 1 of this year (1601-01-01) is used as the base of file datesMicrosoft Windows technical note on file dates, referencing year 1601 and of Active Directory Logon datesMicrosoft Windows technical note on file dates, referencing year 1601 by Microsoft Windows. It is also the date from which ANSI dates are counted and were adopted by the American National Standards Institute for use with COBOL and other computer languages.
Year 1546 (MDXLVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
It has been posited that 1610 marks the beginning of the Anthropocene, or the 'Age of Man', marking a fundamental change in the relationship between humans and the Earth system.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 1561 (MDLXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1540 (MDXL) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1560 (MDLX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
Year 1453 (MCDLIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It is sometimes cited as the notional end of the Middle Ages by historians who define the medieval period as the time between the Fall of the Western Roman Empire and the fall of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
Year 1099 (MXCIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1098 (MXCVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Significant people==
Year 1071 (MLXXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 955 (CMLV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 991 (CMXCI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 4 (IV) was a common year starting on Wednesday or a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar (the sources differ, see leap year error for further information) and a leap year starting on Tuesday of the Proleptic Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Catus and Saturninus (or, less frequently, year 757 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 6 (VI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lepidus and Lucius Arruntius the Younger (or, less frequently, year 759 Ab urbe condita).
AD 7 (VII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Metellus and Nerva (or, less frequently, year 760 Ab urbe condita).
AD 8 (VIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Camillus and Quinctilianus (or, less frequently, 761 Ab urbe condita).
AD 10 (X) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, throughout the Roman Empire it was known as the year of the consulship of Dolabella and Silanus (or, less frequently, year 763 ab urbe condita).
AD 11 (XI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lepidus and Taurus (or, less frequently, year 764 Ab urbe condita).
AD 12 (XII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Capito (or, less frequently, year 765 Ab urbe condita).
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
100BaseVG is a 100 Mbit/s Ethernet standard specified to run over four pairs of category 3 UTP wires (known as voice grade, hence the &quot;VG&quot;). It is also called 100VG-AnyLAN because it was defined to carry both Ethernet and token ring frame types.
thumb|right|10BASE2 cable showing the BNC connector end.
thumb|10BASE5 [[vampire tap Medium Attachment Unit (Transceiver)]]
1641 is the generally accepted year of the birth of the modern timepiece.
Ethernet over twisted pair technologies use twisted-pair cables for the physical layer of an Ethernet computer network.
Year 1410 (MCDX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
AD 13 (XIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silius and Plancus (or, less frequently, year 766 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 16 (XVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Taurus and Libo (or, less frequently, year 769 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 20 (XX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Marcus Valerius Messalla Barbatus and Cotta (or, less frequently, year 773 Ab urbe condita).
AD 21 (XXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Caesar (or, less frequently, year 774 Ab urbe condita).
AD 22 (XXII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Agrippa and Galba (or, less frequently, year 775 Ab urbe condita).
AD 23 (XXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pollio and Vetus (or, less frequently, year 776 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 28 (XXVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Nerva (or, less frequently, year 781 Ab urbe condita).
AD 29 (XXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Geminus and Geminus (or, less frequently, year 782 Ab urbe condita).
AD 30 (XXX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Longinus (or, less frequently, year 783 Ab urbe condita).
right|250px|thumb|[[Hifn|Exar Corporation 16550]] The 16550 UART (universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter)  is an integrated circuit designed for implementing the interface for serial communications. The corrected -A version was released in 1987 by National Semiconductor.
== Events ==
FTZ 1 TR 6 (or 1 TR 6) is the standard for the obsolete German national digital signalling protocol (D channel protocol) used for the ISDN. It has been superseded by DSS1 but is still in use on some lines and private exchanges.
The 320xx or NS32000 was a series of microprocessors from National Semiconductor. They were likely the first 32-bit general-purpose microprocessors on the market, but due to a number of factors they never became commercially successful.
Year 1521 (MDXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 1500's decade ran from January 1, 1500, to December 31, 1509.
The 1510's decade ran from January 1, 1510, to December 31, 1519.
The 1560's decade ran from January 1, 1560, to December 31, 1569.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
9
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
}}
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
The 1610's decade ran from January 1, 1610, to December 31, 1619.
2D computer graphics is the computer-based generation of digital images—mostly from two-dimensional models (such as 2D geometric models, text, and digital images) and by techniques specific to them. The word may stand for the branch of computer science that comprises such techniques, or for the models themselves.
==Events==
AD 32 (XXXII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Ahenobarbus and Camillus (or, less frequently, year 785 Ab urbe condita).
AD 33 (XXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known in the Roman world as the Year of the Consulship of Ocella and Sulla (or, less frequently, year 786 Ab urbe condita).
AD 34 (XXXIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Persicus and Vitellius (or, less frequently, year 787 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 38 (XXXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iulianus and Asprenas (or, less frequently, year 791 Ab urbe condita).
AD 39 (XXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Corbulo (or, less frequently, year 792 Ab urbe condita).
AD 40 (XL) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus without colleague (or, less frequently, year 793 Ab urbe condita).
AD 42 (XLII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Piso (or, less frequently, year 795 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 45 (XLV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Vinicius and Corvinus (or, less frequently, year 798 Ab urbe condita).
AD 46 (XLVI) was a common year starting on Saturday  of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Asiaticus and Silanus (or, less frequently, year 799 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 49 (XLIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Longus and Veranius (or, less frequently, year 802 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
This article concerns the period 9 BC – 1 BC, the last nine years before the Anno Domini era, not the last ten years.
AD 51 (LI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Scipio (or, less frequently, year 804 Ab urbe condita).
AD 52 (LII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sulla and Otho (or, less frequently, year 805 Ab urbe condita).
AD 53 (LIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Antonius (or, less frequently, year 806 Ab urbe condita).
AD 55 (LV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Vetus (or, less frequently, year 808 Ab urbe condita).
AD 56 (LVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known in the Roman Empire as the Year of the Consulship of Saturninus and Scipio (or, less frequently, year 809 Ab urbe condita).
AD 57 (LVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Piso (or, less frequently, year 810 Ab urbe condita).
AD 58 (LVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Messalla (or, less frequently, year 811 Ab urbe condita).
AD 59 (LIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Apronianus and Capito (or, less frequently, year 812 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 61 (LXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Turpilianus and Caesennius (or, less frequently, year 814 Ab urbe condita).
AD 62 (LXII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Marius and Afinius (or, less frequently, year 815 Ab urbe condita).
AD 63 (LXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Regulus and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 816 Ab urbe condita).
AD 64 (LXIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Bassus and Crassus (or, less frequently, year 817 Ab urbe condita).
AD 65 (LXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Nerva and Vestinus (or, less frequently, year 818 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 67 (LXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rufus and Capito (or, less frequently, year 820 Ab urbe condita).
AD 71 (LXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Nerva (or, less frequently, year 824 Ab urbe condita).
AD 72 (LXXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Vespasianus (or, less frequently, year 825 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 74 (LXXIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Titus (third time) and Vespasianus (fifth time) (or, less frequently, year 827 Ab urbe condita).
AD 75 (LXXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Vespasianus (or, less frequently, year 828 Ab urbe condita).
AD 76 (LXXVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Vespasianus (or, less frequently, year 829 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 78 (LXXVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Novius and Commodus (or, less frequently, year 831 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 82 (LXXXII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Sabinus (or, less frequently, year 835 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 85 (LXXXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Fulvus (or, less frequently, year 838 Ab urbe condita).
AD 86 (LXXXVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Petronianus (or, less frequently, year 839 Ab urbe condita).
AD 87 (LXXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Saturninus (or, less frequently, year 840 Ab urbe condita).
AD 88 (LXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 841 Ab urbe condita).
AD 89 (LXXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Fulvus and Atratinus (or, less frequently, year 842 Ab urbe condita).
AD 90 (XC) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Domitian and Nerva (or, less frequently, year 843 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
AD 92 (XCII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Saturninus (or, less frequently, year 845 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
AD 95 (XCV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Clemens (or, less frequently, year 848 Ab urbe condita).
AD 97 (XCVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 850 Ab urbe condita).
AD 98 (XCVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Traianus (or, less frequently, year 851 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
Year 101 (CI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Traianus and Paetus (or, less frequently, year 854 Ab urbe condita).
Year 431 (CDXXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Bassus and Antiochus (or, less frequently, year 1184 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 429 (CDXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Florentius and Dionysius (or, less frequently, year 1182 Ab urbe condita).
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1252 (MCCLII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1284 (MCCLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__FORCETOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 802 (DCCCII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 102 (CII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Ursus and Sura (or, less frequently, year 855 Ab urbe condita).
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 103 (CIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Traianus and Maximus (or, less frequently, year 856 Ab urbe condita).
Year 104 (CIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Suburanus and Marcellus (or, less frequently, year 857 Ab urbe condita).
Year 105 (CV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Candidus and Iulius (or, less frequently, year 858 Ab urbe condita).
Year 106 (CVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Commodus and Civica (or, less frequently, year 859 Ab urbe condita).
Year 107 (CVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sura and Senico (or, less frequently, year 860 Ab urbe condita).
Year 108 (CVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Trebonius and Bradua (or, less frequently, year 861 Ab urbe condita).
Year 109 (CIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Palma and Tullus (or, less frequently, year 862 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 111 (CXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Piso and Bolanus (or, less frequently, year 864 Ab urbe condita).
Year 112 (CXII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Traianus and Cornelius (or, less frequently, year 865 Ab urbe condita).
Year 113 (CXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Celsus and Crispinus (or, less frequently, year 866 Ab urbe condita).
Year 114 (CXIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hasta and Vopiscus (or, less frequently, year 867 Ab urbe condita).
Year 115 (CXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Vergilianus (or, less frequently, year 868 Ab urbe condita).
Year 116 (CXVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lamia and Vetus (or, less frequently, year 869 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 118 (CXVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hadrianus and Fuscus (or, less frequently, year 871 Ab urbe condita).
Year 119 (CXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hadrianus and Rusticus (or, less frequently, year 872 Ab urbe condita).
Year 120 (CXX) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Fulvus (or, less frequently, year 873 Ab urbe condita).
Year 121 (CXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Verus and Augur (or, less frequently, year 874 Ab urbe condita).
Year 123 (CXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Paetinus and Apronius (or, less frequently, year 876 Ab urbe condita).
Year 124 (CXXIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Glabrio and Flaccus (or, less frequently, year 877 Ab urbe condita).
Year 126 (CXXVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Verus and Ambibulus (or, less frequently, year 879 Ab urbe condita).
Year 127 (CXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rufus and Squilla (or, less frequently, year 880 Ab urbe condita).
Year 128 (CXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Calpurnius and Libo (or, less frequently, year 881 Ab urbe condita).
Year 129 (CXXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Celsus and Marcellus (or, less frequently, year 882 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 636    (DCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 636 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 630 (DCXXX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 630 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 605 (DCV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 605 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 746 (DCCXLVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 746 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
Year 747 (DCCXLVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 747 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
7273000502
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
The French Republic introduced the French Revolutionary Calendar starting with the year I.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 763 (DCCLXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 763 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 767 (DCCLXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 767 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
Year 130 (CXXX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Catullinus and Aper (or, less frequently, year 883 Ab urbe condita).
Year 131 (CXXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Laenas and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 884 Ab urbe condita).
Year 132 (CXXXII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Serius and Sergianus (or, less frequently, year 885 Ab urbe condita).
Year 133 (CXXXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hiberus and Sisenna (or, less frequently, year 886 Ab urbe condita).
Year 134 (CXXXIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Ursus and Varus (or, less frequently, year 887 Ab urbe condita).
Year 135 (CXXXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lupercus and Atilianus (or, less frequently, year 888 Ab urbe condita).
Year 136 (CXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Commodus and Civica (or, less frequently, year 889 Ab urbe condita).
Year 137 (CXXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Balbinus (or, less frequently, year 890 Ab urbe condita).
Year 138 (CXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Niger and Camerinus (or, less frequently, year 891 Ab urbe condita).
Year 139 (CXXXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hadrianus and Praesens (or, less frequently, year 892 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 140 (CXL) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hadrianus and Caesar (or, less frequently, year 893 Ab urbe condita).
Year 141 (CXLI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Stloga (or, less frequently, year 894 Ab urbe condita).
Year 142 (CXLII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known in the Roman Empire as the Year of the Consulship of Pactumeius and Quadratus (or, less frequently, year 895 Ab urbe condita).
Year 143 (CXLIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Torquatus and Hipparchus (or, less frequently, year 896 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 145 (CXLV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Hadrianus and Caesar (or, less frequently, year 898 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 148 (CXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Cornelius and Calpernius (or, less frequently, year 901 Ab urbe condita).
Year 149 (CXLIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Scipio and Priscus (or, less frequently, year 902 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 150 (CL) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Squilla and Vetus (or, less frequently, year 903 Ab urbe condita).
Year 151 (CLI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Condianus and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 904 Ab urbe condita).
Year 152 (CLII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Glabrio and Homullus (or, less frequently, year 905 Ab urbe condita).
Year 153 (CLIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rusticus and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 906 Ab urbe condita).
Year 154 (CLIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Lateranus (or, less frequently, year 907 Ab urbe condita).
Year 155 (CLV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 908 Ab urbe condita).
Year 156 (CLVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silvanus and Augurinus (or, less frequently, year 909 Ab urbe condita).
Year 157 (CLVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Civica and Aquillus (or, less frequently, year 910 Ab urbe condita).
Year 158 (CLVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tertullus and Sacerdos (or, less frequently, year 911 Ab urbe condita).
Year 159 (CLIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time in Roman territories, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Quintillus and Priscus (or, less frequently, year 912 Ab urbe condita).
== Events ==
== Events ==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 1277 (MCCLXXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1471 (MCDLXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1498 (MCDXCVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
2002 was designated as:
(1984-2010)
https://businesssearch.sos.
The 3Station was a diskless workstation, developed by Bob Metcalfe at 3Com and first available in 1986. The 3Station/2E had a 10 MHz 80286 processor, 1 megabyte of RAM (expandable to  VGA-compatible graphics with  of video RAM, and integrated AUI/10BASE2 (BNC) network transceivers for LAN access.
The HTTP 404, 404 Not Found and 404 (pronounced &quot;four oh four&quot;) error message is a Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) standard response code, in computer network communications, to indicate that the client was able to communicate with a given server, but the server could not find what was requested.
A 56 kbit/s line is a digital connection capable of carrying 56 kilobits per second (kbit/s), or 56,000 bit/s, the data rate of a classical single channel digital telephone line in North America. In many urban areas, which have seen wide deployment of faster, cheaper technologies, 56 kbit/s lines are generally considered to be an obsolete technology.
The 5ESS Switching System is a Class 5 telephone electronic switching system developed by Western Electric for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&amp;T) and the Bell System in the United States.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
6.4%)
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
2004 was designated as:
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 1057 (MLVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
This year was known as the 'Year Without a Summer' because of low temperatures in the Northern Hemisphere, the result of the Mount Tambora volcanic eruption in Indonesia in 1815. The sulfur from this eruption reflected the sun's rays and caused severe global cooling, catastrophic in some locations.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Sunday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
Year 1130 (MCXXX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1143 (MCXLIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1124 (MCXXIV) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1144 (MCXLIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
007 is a code name of James Bond, a fictional character in the eponymous series James Bond.
== Events ==
==Births==
==Events==
==Events==
==Events==
== Events ==
The year 525 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 229  Ab urbe condita.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 403 (CDIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Theodosius and Rumoridus (or, less frequently, year 1156 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
thumb|Emperor [[Honorius (emperor)|Honorius, by Jean-Paul Laurens]]
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 305 (CCCV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Constantius and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1058 Ab urbe condita).
Year 419 (CDXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Monaxius and Plinta (or, less frequently, year 1172 Ab urbe condita).
Year 454 (CDLIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aetius and Studius (or, less frequently, year 1207 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 389 (CCCLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Timasius and Promotus (or, less frequently, year 1142 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
Year 165 (CLXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Orfitus and Pudens (or, less frequently, year 918 Ab urbe condita).
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 175 (CLXXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Piso and Iulianus (or, less frequently, year 928 Ab urbe condita).
Year 185 (CLXXXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lascivius and Atilius (or, less frequently, year 938 Ab urbe condita).
Year 195 (CXCV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Scrapula and Clemens (or, less frequently, year 948 Ab urbe condita).
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 490 (CDXC) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Faustus and Longinus (or, less frequently, year 1243 Ab urbe condita).
Year 493 (CDXCIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Albinus and Eusebius (or, less frequently, year 1246 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 524 (DXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iustinus and Opilio (or, less frequently, year 1277 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 885 (DCCCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 559 was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 559 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
Year 560 (DLX) was a leap year starting on Thursday  of the Julian calendar. The denomination 560 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 482 (CDLXXXII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severinus and Illus (or, less frequently, year 1235 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 485 (CDLXXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Memmius without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1238 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 487 (CDLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Boethius without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1240 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 492 (CDXCII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Anastasius and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 1245 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Year 478 (CDLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Illus without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1231 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 505 (DV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Theodorus and Sabinianus (or, less frequently, year 1258 Ab urbe condita).
Year 506 (DVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Messala and Dagalaiphus (or, less frequently, year 1259 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 516 (DXVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Petrus without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1269 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 521 (DXXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sabbatius and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1274 Ab urbe condita).
Year 528 (DXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sabbatius without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1281 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 538 (DXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iohannes without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1291 Ab urbe condita).
Year 539 (DXXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Strategius without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1292 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 548 (DXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 548 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 555 (DLV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 555 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 566 (DLXVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 566 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
Year 569 (DLXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 569 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
Year 574 (DLXXIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 574 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
Various sources, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, use the year 1750 as a baseline year for the end of the pre-industrial era.
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
2008 was designated as:
In Great Britain, this year was known as the Annus Mirabilis because of British victories in the Seven Years' War.
== Events ==
In Britain and its colonies, 1751 only had 282 days due to the Calendar Act of 1750.
==Significant people==
==Births==
==Births==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
2000 AD is a weekly British science fiction-orientated comic magazine. As a comics anthology it serialises stories in each issue (known as &quot;progs&quot;Prog: short for &quot;programme&quot; as issues are supposedly beamed directly to the printed page.
thumb|Several 19-inch racks in a professional audio application
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 166 (CLXVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pudens and Pollio (or, less frequently, year 919 Ab urbe condita).
Year 189 (CLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Silanus and Silanus (or, less frequently, year 942 Ab urbe condita).
Year 199 (CXCIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Annullianus and Fronto (or, less frequently, year 952 Ab urbe condita).
Year 217 (CCXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Praesens and Extricatus (or, less frequently, year 970 Ab urbe condita).
Year 230 (CCXXX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Agricola and Clementinus (or, less frequently, year 983 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 254 (CCLIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Valerianus and Gallienus (or, less frequently, year 1007 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 160 (CLX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Atilius and Vibius (or, less frequently, year 913 Ab urbe condita).
Year 161 (CLXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Caesar and Aurelius (or, less frequently, year 914 Ab urbe condita).
Year 162 (CLXII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rusticus and Plautius (or, less frequently, year 915 Ab urbe condita).
Year 163 (CLXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Laelianus and Pastor (or, less frequently, year 916 Ab urbe condita).
Year 164 (CLXIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Macrinus and Celsus (or, less frequently, year 917 Ab urbe condita).
Year 167 (CLXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Quadratus (or, less frequently, year 920 Ab urbe condita).
Year 168 (CLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Apronianus and Paullus (or, less frequently, year 921 Ab urbe condita).
Year 169 (CLXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Senecio and Apollinaris (or, less frequently, year 922 Ab urbe condita).
Year 170 (CLXX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Clarus and Cornelius (or, less frequently, year 923 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 969 (CMLXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 826 (DCCCXXVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 935 (CMXXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 967 (CMLXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 966 (CMLXVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1001 (MI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It is the first year of the 11th century and the 2nd millennium.
Year 1002 (MII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1003 (MIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1004 (MIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1005 (MV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1006 (MVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1007 (MVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1008 (MVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1009 (MIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 999 (CMXCIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.__NOTOC__ Depending on how one defines a millennium, 999 was either the last or second-to-last year of the first millennium.
For codepage, see CP850.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__FORCETOC__
Year 1014 (MXIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 979 (CMLXXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1072 (MLXXII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
File:1st millennium montage.png|From left, clockwise: Depiction of Jesus, the central figure in Christianity; The Colosseum, a landmark of the once-mighty Roman Empire; Gunpowder is invented during the latter part of the millennium, in China; Chess, a new board game, becomes popular around the globe; The Western Roman Empire falls, ushering in the Early Middle Ages; The skeletal remains of a young woman, known as the &quot;ring lady&quot;, killed by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79; Attila the Hun, leader of the Hunnic Empire, which takes most of Eastern Europe (Background: Reproduction of ancient mural from Teotihuacan, National Museum of Anthropology, Mexico City)|400px|thumb
File:2nd millennium montage.png|From left, clockwise: in 1492, Italian navigator Christopher Columbus; the American Revolution; The French Revolution; the Atomic Bomb from World War II; an alternate source of light, the light bulb; for the first time, a human being sets foot on the moon in 1969 during the Apollo 11 moon mission; aeroplanes become the most-used way of transport though the skies; Napoleon Bonaparte, in the early 19th century, affects France and Europe on subjects of expansionism and modernization; Alexander Graham Bell's telephone; in 1348, the Black Death kills over 100 million people worldwide, and over half of Europe, in two years.
The 1st millennium BC encompasses the Iron Age and sees the rise of many successive empires, and spanned from 1000 BC to 1 BC.
The 2nd millennium BC spans the years 2000 through 1000 BC. It marks the transition from the Middle to the Late Bronze Age.
The 3rd millennium BC spans the years 3000 through 2000 BC. This period of time corresponds to the Early to Middle Bronze Age, in which imperialism, or the desire to conquer, grew to prominence in the city-states of the Middle East and throughout Eurasia.
The 4th millennium BC spans the years 4000 through 3000 BC. Some of the major changes in human culture during this time included the beginning of the Bronze Age and the invention of writing, which played a major role in starting recorded history.
The 5th millennium BC saw the spread of agriculture from Western Asia throughout Southern and Central Europe.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Saturday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
2009 was designated as:
2005 was designated as:
Year 1307 (MCCCVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1016 (MXVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1026 (MXXVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1061 (MLXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1078 (MLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1080 (MLXXX) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1084 (MLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1095 (MXCV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1122 (MCXXII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 1123 (MCXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1139 (MCXXXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
Year 1146 (MCXLVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1147 (MCXLVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1152 (MCLII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1156 (MCLVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1173 (MCLXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1179 (MCLXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1187 (MCLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1188 (MCLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1202 (MCCII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1209 (MCCIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1215 (MCCXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 1297 (MCCXCVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1220 (MCCXX) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1223 (MCCXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1224 (MCCXXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1226 (MCCXXVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1229 (MCCXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1232 (MCCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1234 (MCCXXXIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1238 (MCCXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1248 (MCCXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 722 (DCCXXII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 722 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1028 (MXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1019 (MXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 379 (CCCLXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Ausonius and Hermogenianus (or, less frequently, year 1132 Ab urbe condita).
Year 1320 (MCCCXX) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
A nanosecond (ns) is an SI unit of time equal to one billionth of a second (10 or 1/1,000,000,000 s). One nanosecond is to one second as one second is to 31.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1323 (MCCCXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1346 (MCCCXLVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It was a year in the 14th century, in the midst of a period known in European history as the Late Middle Ages.
Year 1348 (MCCCXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
Year 1364 (MCCCLXIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1365 (MCCCLXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1388 (MCCCLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1394 (MCCCXCIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1415 (MCDXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1431 (MCDXXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1437 (MCDXXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1457 (MCDLVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1458 (MCDLVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1196 (MCXCVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1487 (MCDLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
A millisecond (from milli- and second; symbol: ms) is a thousandth (0.001 or 10−3 or 1/1000) of a second.
A microsecond is an SI unit of time equal to one millionth (0.000001 or 10−6 or 1/1,000,000) of a second.
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
Year 1483 (MCDLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
2003 was designated the:
2006 was designated as:
2007 was designated as
__NOTOC__
Year 995 (CMXCV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1360 (MCCCLX) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1477 (MCDLXXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1495 (MCDXCV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
The 1530's decade ran from January 1, 1530, to December 31, 1539.
Year 1555 (MDLV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
The 22nd century will be a century of the Anno Domini or Common Era in accordance with the Gregorian calendar. It will be the century following the current 21st century, beginning on January 1, 2101 and ending on December 31, 2200.
The 1550's decade ran from January 1, 1550, to December 31, 1559.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
(61 Cygni A)
Year 1221 (MCCXXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1459 (MCDLIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1454 (MCDLIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 1660's decade ran from January 1, 1660, to December 31, 1669.
) Final armistice agreement concluded on 20 July 1949
,
The 1670's decade ran from January 1, 1670, to December 31, 1679.
The 1650's decade ran from January 1, 1650, to December 31, 1659.
__NOTOC__
Year 939 (CMXXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 946 (CMXLVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 943 (CMXLIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 954 (CMLIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1058 (MLVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1093 (MXCIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1405 (MCDV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1478 (MCDLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1157 (MCLVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1189 (MCLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. In English law, 1189 - specifically the beginning of the reign of Richard I - is considered the end of time immemorial.
Year 1168 (MCLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1172 (MCLXXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
2010: Odyssey Two is a 1982 science fiction novel by British writer Arthur C. Clarke.
The 1250s decade ran from January 1, 1250, to December 31, 1259.
Year 1462 (MCDLXII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
This is the first year to be designated as an Annus mirabilis, in John Dryden's 1667 poem so titled, celebrating England's failure to be beaten either by the Dutch or by fire.  It is the only year to contain each Roman numeral once in descending order (1000(M)+500(D)+100(C)+50(L)+10(X)+5(V)+1(I) = 1666).
== Events ==
2011 was designated as:
Year 1523 (MDXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
The 1590's decade ran from January 1, 1590, to December 31, 1599.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 992 (CMXCII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 972 (CMLXXII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 948 (CMXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 961 (CMLXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1222 (MCCXXII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1225 (MCCXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1227 (MCCXXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1228 (MCCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1112 (MCXII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1113 (MCXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1114 (MCXIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1115 (MCXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1116 (MCXVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1117 (MCXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1118 (MCXVIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1119 (MCXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1120 (MCXX) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1121 (MCXXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1125 (MCXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1126 (MCXXVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1127 (MCXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1128 (MCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1129 (MCXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1111 (MCXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1110 (MCX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1088 (MLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1010 (MX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1011 (MXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1012 (MXII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1013 (MXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1015 (MXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1017 (MXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1018 (MXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 962 (CMLXII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1055 (MLV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1050 (ML) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1060 (MLX) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1070 (MLXX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 1010s was a decade of the Julian Calendar which began on January 1, 1010, and ended on December 31, 1019.
==Significant people==
Year 963 (CMLXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1480 (MCDLXXX) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1100 (MC) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1101 (MCI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It was the 2nd year of the 1100s decade, and the 1st year of the 12th century.
Year 1400 (MCD) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1461 (MCDLXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 640 (DCXL) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 640 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 651 (DCLI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 651 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 666 (DCLXVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 666 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Ethiopia
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1313 (MCCCXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1333 (MCCCXXXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1331 (MCCCXXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1336 (MCCCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1322 (MCCCXXII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1308 (MCCCVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1398 (MCCCXCVIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1334 (MCCCXXXIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1341 (MCCCXLI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1351 (MCCCLI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1338 (MCCCXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1374 (MCCCLXXIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1371 (MCCCLXXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1393 (MCCCXCIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1382 (MCCCLXXXII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Births==
Year 1205 (MCCV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1153 (MCLIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1200 (MCC) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1180 (MCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1214 (MCCXIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
&gt;= 2010) and ( &lt; 2020))|The 2010s (pronounced &quot;two thousand (and) tens&quot; or &quot;twenty-tens&quot;) is the current decade of the Gregorian calendar. It began on 1 January 2010, and will end on 31 December 2019.
The 2020s (pronounced as &quot;twenty-twenties&quot; or &quot;two-thousand twenties&quot;) is a decade of the Gregorian calendar. It will begin on January 1, 2020 and will end on December 31, 2029.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 725 (DCCXXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 725 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
Year 728 (DCCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 728 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
Year 729 (DCCXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. The denomination 729 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
==Significant people==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 949 (CMXLIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 931 (CMXXXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 930 (CMXXX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 952 (CMLII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 926 (CMXXVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__FORCETOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Significant people==
The 1340s were a Julian calendar decade in the 14th century, in the midst of a period in world history often referred to as the Late Middle Ages in the Old World and the pre-Columbian era in the New World.
==Significant people==
Year 950 (CML) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 959 (CMLIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 984 (CMLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 968 (CMLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 986 (CMLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 980 (CMLXXX) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 976 (CMLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
The 1260s is the decade starting January 1, 1260 and ending December 31, 1269.
The 1270s is the decade starting January 1, 1270, and ending December 31, 1279.
The 1280s is the decade starting January 1, 1280 and ending December 31, 1289.
==Significant people==
The 2030s (pronounced &quot;twenty-thirties&quot;) is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2030 and will end on December 31, 2039.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
Year 356 (CCCLVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Constantius and Iulianus (or, less frequently, year 1109 Ab urbe condita).
Year 1170 (MCLXX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The First Book of Nephi: His Reign and Ministry (), often referred to simply as First Nephi, is the first book of the Book of Mormon and one of four books with the name Nephi. The original translation of the title did not include the word &quot;first&quot;.
The Second Book of Nephi (), often referred to as Second Nephi and abbreviated 2 Ne., is the second book of the Book of Mormon.
The Book of Nephi, The Son of Nephi, Who Was The Son of Helaman () is one of fifteen books that make up the Book of Mormon. This book was first called &quot;III Nephi&quot; in the 1879 editionand &quot;Third Nephi&quot; in the 1920 edition of Book of Mormon.
The Book of Nephi, Who Is the Son of Nephi, One of the Disciples of Jesus Christ () is one of the fifteen books that make up the Book of Mormon. This book was first called &quot;IV Nephi&quot; in the 1879 editionand &quot;Fourth Nephi&quot; in the 1920 edition of Book of Mormon.
Year 1030 (MXXX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
/
Venice is a city in Italy. In historical contexts, the name may refer to the Republic of Venice.
Thermonuclear fusion is a way to achieve nuclear fusion by using extremely high temperatures. There are two forms of thermonuclear fusion: uncontrolled, in which the resulting energy is released in an uncontrolled manner, as it is in thermonuclear weapons (&quot;hydrogen bombs&quot;) and in most stars; and controlled, where the fusion reactions take place in an environment allowing some or all of the energy released to be harnessed for constructive purposes.
}}
Cohabitation is an arrangement where two people who are not married live together.
thumbnail|350px|right|[[Landsat program photo with Mobile Bay in the center]]
thumb|350px|IMSO member states
A Jubilee is a particular anniversary of an event, usually denoting the 25th, 40th, 50th, 60th, or 70th anniversary.   Of biblical origins, the term is often now used to denote the celebrations associated with the reign of a monarch after a milestone number of years have passed.
}}
The First Transcontinental Railroad (known originally as the &quot;Pacific Railroad&quot; and later as the &quot;Overland Route&quot;) was a  continuous railroad line constructed between 1863 and 1869 that connected the existing eastern U.S.
Gaul (Latin: Gallia) was a region of Western Europe during the Iron Age that was inhabited by Celtic tribes, encompassing present day France, Luxembourg, Belgium, most of Switzerland, Northern Italy, as well as the parts of the Netherlands and Germany on the west bank of the Rhine. It covered an area of .
A congress is a formal meeting of the representatives of different nations, constituent states, independent organizations (such as trade unions), or groups.
A magnetic field is the magnetic effect of electric currents and magnetic materials. The magnetic field at any given point is specified by both a direction and a magnitude (or strength); as such it is represented by a vector field.
thumb|200px|Central tower of the [[Torralba, Sardinia|Nuraghe at Sant'Antine of Torralba]]
This is a list of archaeological and artistic sites of Sardinia, Italy:
Clovis (; reconstructed Frankish: *Hlōdowig;Alain de Benoist, Dictionnaire des prénoms, d'hier et aujourd'hui, d'ici et d'ailleurs, p. 294, éd.
Orange Park may refer to:
AS-204 was a Saturn IB launch vehicle that is associated with two missions:
Ecma or ECMA may refer to:
thumb|Structure of a rotaxane that has a [[cyclobis(paraquat-p-phenylene)|cyclobis(paraquat-p-phenylene) macrocycle.]]
Molecular electronics is the study and application of molecular building blocks for the fabrication of electronic components. It is an interdisciplinary area that spans physics, chemistry, and materials science.
Year 1097 (MXCVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
An embryo is an early stage of development of a multicellular diploid eukaryotic organism.  In general, in organisms that reproduce sexually, an embryo develops from a zygote, the single cell resulting from the fertilization of the female egg cell by the male sperm cell.
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
 
Note that the area of Yorkshire increases slightly from  in 1831 to  in 1901 and then reduces to  in 1991, so that these three figures relate to different areas.
Bob Welch may refer to:
ESP may refer to:
On May 25, 1865, in Mobile, Alabama, in the Southern United States, an ordnance depot or &quot;magazine&quot; exploded, killing some 300 persons. This event occurred just after the end of the American Civil War, during the occupation of the city by victorious Federal troops.
A county is a geographical region of a country used for administrative or other purposes,Chambers Dictionary, L. Brookes (ed.
Year 1054 (MLIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
==Significant people==
In quantum mechanics, counterfactual definiteness (CFD) is the ability to speak &quot;meaningfully&quot; of the definiteness of the results of measurements that have not been performed (i.e.
thumb|The pieces of a Soma cube (with extra coloring)
420
Combinatorial chemistry comprises chemical synthetic methods that make it possible to prepare a large number (tens to thousands or even millions) of compounds in a single process. These compound libraries can be made as mixtures, sets of individual compounds or chemical structures generated by computer software.
}}
Linear predictive coding (LPC) is a tool used mostly in audio signal processing and speech processing for representing the spectral envelope of a digital signal of speech in compressed form, using the information of a linear predictive model. It is one of the most powerful speech analysis techniques, and one of the most useful methods for encoding good quality speech at a low bit rate and provides extremely accurate estimates of speech parameters.
David () is a masterpiece of Renaissance sculpture created between 1501 and 1504 by Michelangelo.
was the 68th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  後一条天皇 (68) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Year 1036 (MXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The 2040s is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2040 and will end on December 31, 2049.
was the 69th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  後朱雀天皇 (69) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Year 1045 (MXLV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
was the 70th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  後冷泉天皇 (70) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Year 1068 (MLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1025 (MXXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1034 (MXXXIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1073 (MLXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
may refer to:
Year 1053 (MLIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1086 (MLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The cloistered rule system, or  (meaning &quot;monastery administration&quot;), was a specific form of government in Japan during the Heian period. In this bifurcated system, an emperor abdicated, but retained power and influence.
right|thumb|200px|A horse animated by [[rotoscoping from  Eadweard Muybridge's 19th-century photos. The animation consists of 8 drawings, which are &quot;looped&quot;, i.
Hex is a strategy board game for two players played on a hexagonal grid, theoretically of any size and several possible shapes, but traditionally as an 11×11 rhombus. Players alternate placing markers or stones (Go stones make ideal playing pieces) on unoccupied spaces in an attempt to link their opposite sides of the board in an unbroken chain.
A phonetic algorithm is an algorithm for indexing of words by their pronunciation. Most phonetic algorithms were developed for use with the English language; consequently, applying the rules to words in other languages might not give a meaningful result.
Metaphone is a phonetic algorithm, published by Lawrence Philips in 1990, for indexing words by their English pronunciation.Hanging on the Metaphone, Lawrence Philips.
}}
Russia
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
The San Juan Islands are an archipelago in the northwest corner of the contiguous United States between the U.S.
Columbia Business School Centennial|url=http://www8.gsb.
Atalanta (;  Atalantē) is a character in Greek mythology, a virgin huntress, unwilling to marry, and loved by the hero Meleager.
Iris or IRIS may refer to:
In Ancient Greek religion, Hestia (; , &quot;hearth&quot; or &quot;fireside&quot;) is a virgin goddess of the hearth, architecture, and the right ordering of domesticity, the family, the home, and the state. In Greek mythology, she is a daughter of Cronus and Rhea.
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) is an international financial institution that offers investment, advisory, and asset-management services to encourage private-sector development in developing countries. The IFC is a member of the World Bank Group and is headquartered in Washington, DC.
The International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (ICFTU) was an international trade union. It came into being on 7 December 1949 following a split within the World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU), and was dissolved on 31 October 2006 when it merged with the World Confederation of Labour (WCL) to form the International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC).
}}
(aged 64)
Anita Elizabeth Harding (17 September 1952 – 11 September 1995) was a British neurologist, and Professor of Clinical Neurology at the Institute of Neurology of the University of London. She is known for the discovery with Ian Holt and John Morgan-Hughes of the &quot;first identification of a mitochondrial DNA mutation in human disease and the concept of tissue heteroplasmy of mutant mitochondrial DNA&quot;, published in Nature in 1986.
}}
The Burrows–Wheeler transform (BWT, also called block-sorting compression) rearranges a character string into runs of similar characters. This is useful for compression, since it tends to be easy to compress a string that has runs of repeated characters by techniques such as move-to-front transform and run-length encoding.
Koine Greek: Μαθθίας; died c. 80 AD) was, according to the Acts of the Apostles, the apostle chosen by lot to replace Judas Iscariot following Judas' betrayal of Jesus and his subsequent death.
Benford's law, also called the first-digit law, is an observation about the frequency distribution of leading digits in many real-life sets of numerical data. The law states that in many naturally occurring collections of numbers, the leading significant digit is likely to be small.
Year 983 (CMLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The Little Ice Age (LIA) was a period of cooling that occurred after the Medieval Warm Period. Although it was not a true ice age, the term was introduced into scientific literature by François E.
An artery (plural arteries) ()ἀρτηρία, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus is a blood vessel that takes oxygenated blood from the heart to all parts of the body.  The two exceptions to this rule are the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries.
The Medieval Warm Period (MWP), Medieval Climate Optimum, or Medieval Climatic Anomaly was a time of warm climate  in the North Atlantic region that may also have been related to other climate events around the world during that time, including  China and other areas, lasting from about 950 to 1250. It was followed by a cooler period in the North Atlantic and elsewhere termed the Little Ice Age.
Occam's razor (also Ockham's razor; Latin: lex parsimoniae &quot;law of parsimony&quot;) is a problem-solving principle attributed to William of Ockham (c. 1287–1347), who was an English Franciscan friar, scholastic philosopher, and theologian.
Cotton is a soft, fluffy staple fiber that grows in a [or protective case, around the seeds of the cotton plants of the genus Gossypium] in the mallow family [[Malvaceae. The fiber is almost pure cellulose.
A Football Hall of Fame may refer to:
pulmonary trunk and right and left pulmonary arteries Right coronary artery, left main coronary artery
In computer science, the subset sum problem is an important problem in complexity theory and cryptography.  The problem is this: given a set (or multiset) of integers, is there a non-empty subset whose sum is zero?
Pericles (;  Periklēs,  in Classical Attic; c. 495 – 429 BC) was a prominent and influential Greek statesman, orator and general of Athens during the Golden Age—specifically the time between the Persian and Peloponnesian wars.
The Three Stooges were an American vaudeville and comedy team active from 1928 until 1970, best known for their 190 Columbia short-subject films that have been airing on television regularly since 1958. Their hallmark was physical farce and slapstick.
Sutter's Fort was a 19th-century agricultural and trade colony in the Mexican Alta California province.National Park Service.
BWT may refer to
Dekker's algorithm is the first known correct solution to the mutual exclusion problem in concurrent programming. The solution is attributed to Dutch mathematician Th.
In computer science, mutual exclusion is a property of concurrency control, which is instituted for the purpose of preventing race conditions; it is the requirement that one thread of execution never enter its critical section at the same time that another concurrent thread of execution enters its own critical section.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) (French: Fonds international de développement agricole; FIDA) (Italian: Fondo Internazionale per lo Sviluppo Agricolo) is an international financial institution and a specialised agency of the United Nations dedicated to eradicating poverty and hunger in rural areas of developing countries. It was established as an international financial institution in 1977 as one of the major outcomes of the 1974 World Food Conference.
[(11856519893).jpg|thumb|A Hanford] scientist uses an Auger electron spectrometer to determine the elemental composition of surfaces.
ICRM may refer to:
A sports governing body is a sports organisation that has a regulatory or sanctioning function. Sports governing bodies come in various forms, and have a variety of regulatory functions.
}}
Thrace (; Modern , Thráke; , Trakiya; ) is a geographical and historical area in southeast Europe, now split between Bulgaria, Greece and Turkey, which is bounded by the Balkan Mountains to the north, the Aegean Sea to the south and the Black Sea to the east. It comprises southeastern Bulgaria (Northern Thrace), northeastern Greece (Western Thrace) and the European part of Turkey (Eastern Thrace).
References:  Serial No. 42236 ITIS 2002-09-22
The words Celt and Celtic (also Keltic) may refer to:
Zooarchaeology (or archaeozoology) is the study of faunal remains.   Faunal remains are the items left behind when an animal dies.
The lungs are the primary organs of the respiratory system in humans and many other animals including a few fish and some snails. In mammals and most other vertebrates, two lungs are located near the backbone on either side of the heart.
Hepburn romanization () is a system for the romanization of Japanese, that is using the Roman alphabet to write the Japanese language. It is used by most foreigners learning to spell Japanese in the Roman alphabet and by the Japanese for romanizing personal names, geographical locations, and other information such as train tables, road signs, and official communications with foreign countries.
DreamcastPlayStation 2
CIS may refer to:
thumb|300px|right|Three types of cell division
Non-judicial punishment (or NJP) is any form of punishment that may be applied to individual military personnel, without a need for a court martial or similar proceedings.
Nuclear warfare (sometimes atomic warfare or thermonuclear warfare) is a military conflict or political strategy in which nuclear weaponry is used to inflict damage on the enemy.  Nuclear weapons are weapons of mass destruction; in contrast to conventional warfare, nuclear warfare can produce destruction in a much shorter time-frame and can have a long-lasting radiological warfare dimension.
thumb|Pair of lovers group of [[Nymphenburg porcelain, c. 1760, modelled by Franz Anton Bustelli]]
Year 1493 (MCDXCIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
IOM may refer to:
A silicate  is a compound containing an anionic silicon compound.  The great majority of the silicates are oxides, but hexafluorosilicate ([SiF6]2−) and other anions are also included.
}}
thumb|[[Coat of arms of the second Duchy of Burgundy and later of the French province of Burgundy]]
==Significant people==
==Significant people==
()
A service club or service organization is a voluntary non-profit organization where members meet regularly to perform charitable works either by direct hands-on efforts or by raising money for other organizations. A service club is defined firstly by its service mission and secondly its membership benefits, such as social occasions, networking, and personal growth opportunities that encourage involvement.
Antipater of Sidon (Greek: Ἀντίπατρος ὁ Σιδώνιος, Antipatros ho Sidonios) was an ancient Greek poet in the second half of the 2nd century BC. His poems preserved in the Greek Anthology include evocations of art and literature and some epitaphs.
An egg is an organic vessel in which an embryo begins to develop.
The arabesque is a form of artistic decoration consisting of &quot;surface decorations based on rhythmic linear patterns of scrolling and interlacing foliage, tendrils&quot; or plain lines, often combined with other elements. Another definition is &quot;Foliate ornament, used in the Islamic world, typically using leaves, derived from stylised half-palmettes, which were combined with spiralling stems&quot;.
Theotokos (Greek  English pronunciation: ;  ) is a title of Mary, mother of God, used especially in Eastern Christianity. The usual Latin translations, Dei Genetrix or Deipara (approximately &quot;parent (fem.
French
The Quran (;  , literally meaning &quot;the recitation&quot;; also romanized Qur'an or Koran) is the central religious text of Islam, which Muslims believe to be a revelation from God (Allah). It is widely regarded as the finest work in classical Arabic literature.
Network and networking may refer to:
A television network is a telecommunications network for distribution of television program content, whereby a central operation provides programming to many television stations or pay television providers. Until the mid-1980s, television programming in most countries of the world was dominated by a small number of broadcast networks.
Columbia may refer to:
Alkanna tinctoria, the dyer's alkanet or alkanet, is a herb in the borage family. Its main notability is its roots are used as a red dye.
In mathematics, Laplace's equation is a second-order partial differential equation named after Pierre-Simon Laplace who first studied its properties. This is often written as:
An indemnity is an obligation by a person (indemnitor) to provide compensation for a particular loss suffered by another person (indemnitee).
}}
Ritual Entertainment was a video game developer established in 1996 by Robert Atkins, Mark Dochtermann, Jim Dosé, Richard 'Levelord' Gray, Michael Hadwin, Harry Miller, and Tom Mustaine. Based in Dallas, Texas, Ritual Entertainment was formerly known as Hipnotic Interactive, during which period they began development of their signature video game SiN.
SPARC, for Scalable Processor Architecture, is a reduced instruction set computing (RISC) instruction set architecture (ISA) originally developed by Sun Microsystems. Its design was strongly influenced by the experimental Berkeley RISC system developed in the early 1980s.
}}
Kenneth Charles Williams (22 February 1926 – 15 April 1988) was an English actor, best known for his comedy roles and in later life as a raconteur and diarist. He was one of the main ensemble in 26 of the 31 Carry On films, and appeared in many British television programmes and radio comedies, including series with Tony Hancock and Kenneth Horne.
Beef is the culinary name for meat from cattle, particularly skeletal muscle. Humans have been eating beef since prehistoric times.
Bread is a staple food prepared from a dough of flour and water, usually by baking. Throughout recorded history it has been popular around the world and is one of the oldest artificial foods, having been of importance since the dawn of agriculture.
The Arctic ( or )American Heritage Dictionary sound, but the pronunciation with the k sound is nowadays very common. The &quot;c&quot; was added to the spelling for etymological reasons and then began to be pronounced, but (as with other spelling pronunciations) at first only by less educated people.
Pashtun}}
While a significant majority of water vessels are powered by diesel engines, with sail power and gasoline engines also remaining popular, boats powered by electricity have been used for over 120 years.  Electric boats were very popular from the 1880s until the 1920s, when the internal combustion engine took dominance.
General Dynamics Electric BoatGeneral Dynamics Electric Boat home page (GDEB) is a subsidiary of General Dynamics Corporation. It has been the primary builder of submarines for the United States Navy for more than 100 years.
Rice is the seed of the grass species Oryza sativa (Asian rice) or Oryza glaberrima (African rice). As a cereal grain, it is the most widely consumed staple food for a large part of the world's human population, especially in Asia.
Clay is a finely-grained natural rock or soil material that combines one or more clay minerals with traces of metal oxides and organic matter. Geologic clay deposits are mostly composed of phyllosilicate minerals containing variable amounts of water trapped in the mineral structure.
Birmingham is a city and metropolitan borough in the West Midlands of England.
A backronym, or bacronym, is a specially constructed phrase that is supposed to be the source of a word that is, or is claimed to be, an acronym. Backronyms may be invented with serious or humorous intent or may be a type of false etymology or folk etymology.
A recursive acronym is an acronym that refers to itself. The term was first used in print in 1979 in Douglas Hofstadter's book Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, in which Hofstadter invents the acronym GOD, meaning &quot;GOD Over Djinn&quot;, to help explain infinite series, and describes it as a recursive acronym.
Salmon  is the common name for several species of ray-finned fish in the family Salmonidae. Other fish in the same family include trout, char, grayling and whitefish.
Today's New International Version (TNIV) is an English translation of the Bible developed by the Committee on Bible Translation (CBT). The CBT also developed the New International Version (NIV) in the 1970s.
The Carry On franchise primarily consists of a sequence of 31 low-budget British comedy motion pictures (1958–92), four Christmas specials, a television series of thirteen episodes, and three West End and provincial stage plays. The films' humour was in the British comic tradition of the music hall and bawdy seaside postcards.
thumb|[[Alexander Mitchell Palmer]]
thumb|Simple black [[Eastern Orthodox Church|Eastern Orthodox prayer rope without tassel.]]
Mystery religions, sacred mysteries or simply mysteries, were religious schools of the Greco-Roman world for which participation was reserved to initiates (mystai).. The main characterization of this religion is the secrecy associated with the particulars of the initiation and the ritual practice, which may not be revealed to outsiders.
A communist party is  a political party that advocates the application of the social and economic principles of communism through state policy. The name originates from the 1848 tract Manifesto of the Communist Party by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels.
Philosophy of science is a sub-field of philosophy concerned with the foundations, methods, and implications of science. The central questions of this study concern what qualifies as science, the reliability of scientific theories, and the ultimate purpose of science.
325px|thumb|Schematic representation of the Dirac delta function by a line surmounted by an arrow. The height of the arrow is usually meant to specify the value of any multiplicative constant, which will give the area under the function.
A courtesan was originally a courtier, which means a person who attends the court of a monarch or other powerful person.Oxford English Dictionary, v.
}}
The Game of Life, also known simply as Life, is a cellular automaton devised by the British mathematician John Horton Conway in 1970.
Veronica Franco (1546–1591) was an Italian poet and courtesan in 16th-century Venice.
Environment may refer to:
433
thumb|right|350px|Map of the Roman empire and contemporary indigenous Europe in AD 125, showing the location of the Heruli on the [[Denmark|Danish islands.]]
Akasha (Sanskrit  ) is a term for æther in traditional Indian cosmology. The term has also been adopted in Western occultism and spiritualism in the late 19th century.
Faery Wicca, or Fairy Wicca, is any tradition of modern Wicca that places an emphasis on the Fey (goblins, elves, faeries, sprites, etc.), their lore, and their relation to the natural world.
thumb|500px|upright=1.35|The Maunder Minimum shown in a 400-year history of sunspot numbers
}}
War Game}}
Civil and political rights are a class of rights that protect individuals' freedom from infringement by governments, social organizations, and private individuals. They ensure one's ability to participate in the civil and political life of the society and state without discrimination or repression.
Russian roulette (, Russkaya ruletka) is a lethal game of chance in which a player places a single round in a revolver, spins the cylinder, places the muzzle against their head, and pulls the trigger. &quot;Russian&quot; refers to the supposed country of origin, and roulette to the element of risk-taking and the spinning of the revolver's cylinder, which is reminiscent of a spinning roulette wheel.
Civil disobedience is the active, professed refusal to obey certain laws, demands, and commands of a government, or of an occupying international power. Civil disobedience is sometimes defined as having to be nonviolent to be called civil disobedience.
Phrack is an ezine written by and for hackers first published November 17, 1985. Described by Fyodor as &quot;the best, and by far the longest running hacker zine,&quot; the magazine is open for contributions by anyone who desires to publish remarkable works or express original ideas on the topics of interest.
Thought refers to ideas or arrangements of ideas that are the result of the process of thinking. Though thinking is an activity considered essential to humanity, there is no consensus as to how we define or understand it.
The State of the Union address is a speech presented by the President of the United States to a joint session of the United States Congress, except in the first year of a new president's term.Diaz, Daniella, &quot;Why Trump's Tuesday speech isn't a State of the Union address&quot;, CNN, February 28, 2017.
In event-driven computer programs, an event cascade occurs when an event handler causes another event to occur which also triggers an event handler. This can be a tricky source of program errors (see computer bug).
A software bug is an error, flaw, failure or fault in a computer program or system that causes it to produce an incorrect or unexpected result, or to behave in unintended ways.
Lél   Súr   Taksony
}}
Jess is a rule engine for the Java platform that was developed by Ernest Friedman-Hill of Sandia National Labs.  It is a superset of the CLIPS programming language.
}}
A think tank, policy institute, or research institute is an organisation that performs research and advocacy concerning topics such as social policy, political strategy, economics, military, technology, and culture. Most policy institutes are non-profit organisations, which some countries such as the United States and Canada provide with tax exempt status.
Emissions trading or cap and trade is a government-mandated, market-based approach to controlling pollution by providing economic incentives for achieving reductions in the emissions of pollutants. In contrast to command-and-control environmental regulations such as best available technology (BAT) standards and government subsidies, cap and trade (CAT) schemes are a type of flexible environmental regulation that allows organizations to decide how best to meet policy targets.
thumb|right|[[Basmala|Bismillah written in Arabic calligraphy]]
In the present-day English language, the word nigger is an ethnic slur, usually directed at black people. The word originated as a neutral term referring to people with black skin, as a variation of the Spanish and Portuguese noun negro, a descendant of the Latin adjective [(meaning the color &quot;black&quot;).
Theories of political behavior, as an aspect of political science, attempt to quantify and explain the influences that define a person's political views, ideology, and levels of political participation.Broadly speaking, behavior is political whenever individuals or groups try to influence or escape the influence of others.
Sir Austin Danger Powers, KBE, is a fictional character from the Austin Powers series of films, and is created and portrayed by Mike Myers. He is the protagonist of Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery (1997), The Spy Who Shagged Me (1999) and Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002).
*}}
Barbecue or barbeque (informally BBQ or barby/barbies) is both a cooking method and an apparatus.  Barbecuing is done slowly over low, indirect heat and the food is flavored by the smoking process, while grilling, a related process, is generally done quickly over moderate-to-high direct heat that produces little smoke.
Arabidopsis (rockcress) is a genus in the family Brassicaceae. They are small flowering plants related to cabbage and mustard.
}}
Zeno}}
279 BC
15 October 99 BC
}}
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). 10 of 12 of the cranial nerves originate in the brainstem.
A white cane is used by many people who are blind or visually impaired. Its primary uses are as a mobility tool and as a courtesy to others, but there are at least five varieties, each serving a slightly different need.
A supercomputer is a computer with a high level of computing performance compared to a general-purpose computer. Performance of a supercomputer is measured in floating-point operations per second (FLOPS) instead of million instructions per second (MIPS).
Coxsackie A virus (CAV) is a cytolytic Coxsackievirus of the Picornaviridae family, an enterovirus (a group containing the polioviruses, coxsackieviruses, and echoviruses).
Reinhard is a given name and a surname. Notable persons with that name include:
Fuel injection is the introduction of fuel in an internal combustion engine, most commonly automotive engines, by the means of an injector.
Grand Slam or Grand slam may refer to:
Openlaw is a project at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School aimed at releasing case arguments under a copyleft license, in order to encourage public suggestions for improvement.
Friday the 13th is considered an unlucky day in Western superstition. It occurs when the 13th day of the month in the Gregorian calendar falls on a Friday, which can be the case at least once every year, and up to three times a year.
The Cray-1 was a supercomputer designed, manufactured and marketed by Cray Research. Announced in 1975, the first Cray-1 system was installed at Los Alamos National Laboratory in 1976.
The Novikov self-consistency principle, also known as the Novikov self-consistency conjecture and Larry Niven's law of conservation of history, is a principle developed by Russian physicist Igor Dmitriyevich Novikov in the mid-1980s. Novikov intended it to solve the problem of paradoxes in time travel, which is theoretically permitted in certain solutions of general relativity that contain what are known as closed timelike curves.
Colossus, Colossos, or the plural Colossi, comes from the Ancient Greek kολοσσός meaning a giant statue, and may refer to:
Pope Leo VIII (12 February 915 - 1 March 965) was Pope from 23 June 964 to his death in 965; before that, he was an antipope from 963 to 964, in opposition to Pope John XII and Pope Benedict V. An appointee of the Holy Roman Emperor, Otto I, his pontificate occurred during the period known as the Saeculum obscurum.
The vagus nerve ( ), historically cited as the pneumogastric nerve, is the tenth cranial nerve or CN X, and interfaces with parasympathetic control of the heart, lungs, and digestive tract. The vagus nerves are paired; however, they are normally referred to in the singular.
Thomas Beckett}}
Jonathan Edwards may refer to:
Casualty}}
Isotope separation is the process of concentrating specific isotopes of a chemical element by removing other isotopes. The use of the nuclides produced is various.
* KCB
Nuclear engineering is the branch of engineering concerned with the application of the breakdown (fission) as well as the combination (fusion) of atomic nuclei or the application of other sub-atomic physics, based on the principles of nuclear physics. In the sub-field of nuclear fission, it particularly includes the interaction and maintenance of systems and components like nuclear reactors, nuclear power plants, or nuclear weapons.
A landslide, also known as a landslip, is a form of mass wasting that includes a wide range of ground movements, such as rockfalls, deep failure of slopes, and shallow debris flows. Landslides can occur underwater, called a submarine landslide, coastal and onshore environments.
The House of Billung was a dynasty of Saxon noblemen in the 9th through 12th centuries.
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce.Definition of &quot;infection&quot; from several medical dictionaries - Retrieved on 2012-04-03 Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection.
The North Coast Athletic Conference (NCAC) is an NCAA Division III athletic conference composed of colleges located in Ohio, Indiana and Pennsylvania. When founded in 1984, the league was a pioneer in gender equality, offering competition in a then-unprecedented 10 women's sports.
His Dark Materials is an epic trilogy of fantasy novels by Philip Pullman consisting of Northern Lights (1995, published as The Golden Compass in North America), The Subtle Knife (1997), and The Amber Spyglass (2000). It follows the coming of age of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry, as they wander through a series of parallel universes.
Jan Kjærstad (born 6 March 1953 in Oslo) is a Norwegian author.Jan Kjærstad in Store norske leksikon Jan Kjærstad – utdypning in Store norske leksikon  Kjærstad is a theology graduate from MF Norwegian School of Theology and the University of Oslo (cand.
}}
thumb|upright=1.14|Fermat's principle leads to [[Snell's law; when the sines of the angles in the different media are in the same proportion as the propagation velocities, the time to get from P to Q is minimized.
A society is a group of people involved in persistent social interaction, or a large social group sharing the same geographical or social territory, typically subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions; a given society may be described as the sum total of such relationships among its constituent of members.
radionucleotide}}
}}
John Knox (c. 1513 – 24 November 1572) was a Scottish minister, theologian, and writer who was a leader of the Reformation.
Miron Cristea Gheorghe Buzdugan Constantin Sărăţeanu }}
Radioactive waste is waste that contains radioactive material. Radioactive waste is usually a by-product of nuclear power generation and other applications of nuclear fission or nuclear technology, such as research and medicine.
Hohenzollern]]
The cephalic index or cranial index is the ratio of the maximum width (bipareital diameter or BPD, side to side) of the head of an organism (human or animal) multiplied by 100 divided by its maximum length (occipitofrontal diameter or OFD, front to back). The index is also used to categorize animals, especially dogs and cats.
Wall Street is an eight-block-long street running roughly northwest to southeast from Broadway to South Street, at the East River, in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan in New York City.Profile of Manhattan Community Board 1, retrieved July 17, 2007.
The rubidium-strontium dating method is a radiometric dating technique used by scientists to determine the age of rocks and minerals from the quantities they contain of specific isotopes of rubidium (87Rb) and strontium (87Sr, 86Sr).
Peg solitaire (or Solo Noble) is a board game for one player involving movement of pegs on a board with holes.  Some sets use marbles in a board with indentations.
Klondike is a patience game (solitaire card game). In the U.
Edna Ferber (August 15, 1885 – April 16, 1968) was an American novelist, short story writer and playwright. Her novels were especially popular and included the Pulitzer Prize-winning So Big (1924), Show Boat (1926; made into the celebrated 1927 musical), Cimarron (1929; made into the 1931 film which won the Academy Award for Best Picture), Giant (1952; made into the 1956 Hollywood movie) and Ice Palace (1958) filmed in 1960
Batch processing is the execution of a series of jobs in a program on a computer without manual intervention (non-interactive). Strictly speaking, it is a processing mode: the execution of a series of programs each on a set or &quot;batch&quot; of inputs, rather than a single input (which would instead be a custom job).
*Scooby-Doo! Shaggy's Showdown (2017)
In abstract algebra and algebraic geometry, the spectrum of a commutative ring R, denoted by \operatorname{Spec}(R), is the set of all prime ideals of R. It is commonly augmented with the Zariski topology and with a structure sheaf, turning it into a locally ringed space.
A number of notable people have considered themselves Unitarians, Universalists, and following the merger of these denominations in the United States and Canada in 1961, Unitarian Universalists. Additionally, there are persons who, because of their writings or reputation, are considered to have held Unitarian or Universalist beliefs.
(claimed by ULC, no independent verification)
Criminal procedure is the adjudication process of the criminal law. While criminal procedure differs dramatically by jurisdiction, the process generally begins with a formal criminal charge, and results in the conviction or acquittal of the defendant.
Media may refer to :
}}
thumb|right|220px|During a live reptile show, volunteers from the audience are requested to assist in the handling of a 5-meter-long (approx. 16-foot) female [[Burmese python.
Federal Standard 1037C, titled Telecommunications: Glossary of Telecommunication Terms, is a United States Federal Standard issued by the General Services Administration pursuant to the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended.Information Administration, National Telecommunication.
A cypherpunk is any activist advocating widespread use of strong cryptography and privacy-enhancing technologies as a route to social and political change. Originally communicating through the Cypherpunks electronic mailing list, informal groups aimed to achieve privacy and security through proactive use of cryptography.
Computer-aided design (CAD) is the use of computer systems (or ) to aid in the creation, modification, analysis, or optimization of a design. CAD software is used to increase the productivity of the designer, improve the quality of design, improve communications through documentation, and to create a database for manufacturing.
In academic publishing, a scientific journal is a periodical publication intended to further the progress of science, usually by reporting new research. Articles in scientific journals are mostly written by active scientists such as students, researchers and professors instead of professional journalists.
The Martian Chronicles is a 1950 science fiction short story collection by Ray Bradbury that chronicles the colonization of Mars by humans fleeing from a troubled and eventually atomically devastated Earth, and the conflict between aboriginal Martians and the new colonists. The book lies somewhere in between a short story collection and an episodic novel, containing stories Bradbury originally published in the late 1940s in science fiction magazines.
The Aeneid (;  ) is a Latin epic poem, written by Virgil between 29 and 19 BC, that tells the legendary story of Aeneas, a Trojan who travelled to Italy, where he became the ancestor of the Romans. It comprises 9,896 lines in dactylic hexameter.
Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus (), commonly known as Suetonius (; c. 69 – after 122 AD),Encyclopædia Britannica Retrieved on 15 May 2017.
Marcus Junius Brutus (the Younger) (; 85 BC – 23 October 42 BC), often referred to as Brutus, was a politician of the late Roman Republic. After being adopted by his uncle he used the name Quintus Servilius Caepio Brutus, but eventually returned to using his original name.
Calpurnia can refer to:
__NOTOC__
thumb|150px|right|An aldehyde
A drought  is a period of below-average precipitation in a given region, resulting in prolonged shortages in the water supply, whether atmospheric, surface water or ground water. A drought can last for months or years, or may be declared after as few as 15 days.
The proleptic Julian calendar is produced by extending the Julian calendar backwards to dates preceding AD 4 when the quadrennial leap year stabilized. The leap years that were actually observed between the implementation of the Julian calendar in 45 BC and AD 4 were erratic: see the Julian calendar article for details.
A soldier is one who fights as part of a land-based army. A soldier can be an enlisted person, a non-commissioned officer, or an officer in the army.
}}
Republican can refer to:
Shrapnel shells were anti-personnel artillery munitions which carried a large number of individual bullets close to the target and then ejected them to allow them to continue along the shell's trajectory and strike the target individually. They relied almost entirely on the shell's velocity for their lethality.
Dominus Iesus () is a declaration by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (known as the &quot;Holy Office&quot;), approved in a Plenary meeting of the Congregation and signed by its then Prefect, Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger, later Pope Benedict XVI, and of its then Secretary, Archbishop Tarcisio Cardinal Bertone, later Cardinal Secretary of State. The declaration was approved by Pope John Paul II and was published on August 6, 2000.
Liberation theology is an interpretation of Christian theology which emphasises a concern for the liberation of the oppressed.
A verb, from  the Latin verbum meaning word, is a word (part of speech) that in syntax conveys an action (bring, read, walk, run, learn), an occurrence (happen, become), or a state of being (be, exist, stand).  In the usual description of English, the basic form, with or without the particle to, is the infinitive.
Etruscan(s)  may refer to:
Thebes may refer to one of the following places:
The General Atomics MQ-1 Predator is an American remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) built by General Atomics and used primarily by the United States Air Force (USAF) and Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). Initially conceived in the early 1990s for aerial reconnaissance and forward observation roles, the Predator carries cameras and other sensors but has been modified and upgraded to carry and fire two AGM-114 Hellfire missiles or other munitions.
Fiestas Patrias ()  in Mexico originated in the 19th century and are observed today as five public holidays.
Paradise Lost is an epic poem in blank verse by the 17th-century English poet John Milton (1608–1674). The first version, published in 1667, consisted of ten books with over ten thousand lines of verse.
The RQ-3 DarkStar (known as Tier III- or &quot;Tier three minus&quot; during development) is an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). Its first flight was on March 29, 1996.
The Northrop Grumman RQ-4 Global Hawk is an unmanned (UAV) surveillance aircraft. It was initially designed by Ryan Aeronautical (now part of Northrop Grumman), and known as Tier II+ during development.
The AAI RQ-2 Pioneer is an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) that had been utilized by the United States Navy, Marine Corps, and Army, and deployed at sea and on land from 1986 until 2007. Initially tested aboard USS Iowa, the RQ-2 Pioneer was placed aboard s to provide gunnery spotting, its mission evolving into reconnaissance and surveillance, primarily for amphibious forces.
The IAI RQ-5 Hunter unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was originally intended to serve as the United States Army's Short Range UAV system for division and corps commanders. It took off and landed (using arresting gear) on runways.
Relative density, or specific gravity, is the ratio of the density (mass of a unit volume) of a substance to the density of a given reference material. Specific gravity usually means relative density with respect to water.
R.U.
The mole is the unit of measurement in the International System of Units (SI) for amount of substance. The unit is defined as the amount of a chemical substance that contains as many representative particles, e.
A fertilizer (American English) or fertiliser (British English; see spelling differences) is any material of natural or synthetic origin (other than liming materials) that is applied to soils or to plant tissues (usually leaves) to supply one or more plant nutrients essential to the growth of plants.
The chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a type of domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. It is one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a total population of more than 19 billion as of 2011.
Eastern Europe is the eastern part of the European continent. There is no consensus on the precise area it covers, partly because the term has a wide range of geopolitical, geographical, cultural, and socioeconomic connotations.
KFC, until 1991 known as Kentucky Fried Chicken,http://mentalfloss.com/article/70275/12-finger-lickin-facts-about-kfc is an American fast food restaurant chain that specializes in fried chicken.
The alkaline earth metals are six chemical elements in group 2 of the periodic table. They are beryllium (Be), magnesium (Mg), calcium (Ca), strontium (Sr), barium (Ba), and radium (Ra)..
A gold standard is a monetary system in which the standard economic unit of account is based on a fixed quantity of gold. Three types can be distinguished: specie, bullion, and exchange.
Mercury (; Latin: Mercurius  ) is a major Roman god, being one of the Dii Consentes within the ancient Roman pantheon. He is the patron god of financial gain, commerce, eloquence (and thus poetry), messages/communication (including divination), travelers, boundaries, luck, trickery and thieves; he is also the guide of souls to the underworld.
The Porsche 914 or VW-Porsche 914 is a mid-engined, targa-topped two-seater roadster designed sports car manufactured and marketed collaboratively by Volkswagen and Porsche from 1969 to 1976.
thumb|300px|alt=A black and white general world map with East Malaysia highlighted in green|right|East Malaysia comprises the states of Sabah and Sarawak, and the Federal territory of Labuan.
or )Random House Dictionary is an ancient and simple knot] used to form a fixed [[loop (knot)|loop at the end of a rope. It has the virtues of being both easy to tie and untie; most notably, it is easy to untie after being subjected to a load.
Loop or LOOP may refer to:
Bend may refer to:
For articles on Colorimeter see:
Equilibrium may refer to:
In chemistry, Le Chatelier's principle (pronounced ), also called Chatelier's principle or &quot;The Equilibrium Law&quot;, can be used to predict the effect of a change in conditions on a chemical equilibrium. The principle is named after Henry Louis Le Chatelier and sometimes Karl Ferdinand Braun who discovered it independently.
A solvent (from the Latin [&quot;loosen, untie, solve&quot;) is a substance that dissolves a solute (a chemically distinct liquid, solid or gas), resulting in a solution]. A solvent is usually a liquid but can also be a solid, a gas, or a [[supercritical fluid.
In philosophy, systems theory, science, and art, emergence is a phenomenon whereby larger entities arise through interactions among smaller or simpler entities such that the larger entities exhibit properties the smaller/simpler entities do not exhibit.
The AAI RQ-7 Shadow is an American unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) used by the United States Army, Marine Corps, Australian Army and Swedish Army for reconnaissance, surveillance, target acquisition and battle damage assessment. Launched from a trailer-mounted pneumatic catapult, it is recovered with the aid of arresting gear similar to jets on an aircraft carrier.
), or generic nitrogen oxide pollutants NOx.}}
The Alliant RQ-6 Outrider unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) was designed to provide near-real-time reconnaissance, surveillance, and target acquisition information to United States Marine Corps air/ground task forces, United States Army brigades, and deployed United States Navy units that was small enough for an entire system to be contained on two Humvees and trailer and transported on a single C-130 Hercules cargo aircraft.
thumb|upright|Displaying a 7 × 7 Latin square, this [[stained glass window honors  Ronald Fisher, whose Design of Experiments discussed Latin squares. Fisher's student, A.
Overhand may refer to:
thumb|Offices of the Butterworth &amp; Sons mortuary in [[Seattle, WA, 1900]]
The overhand knot is one of the most fundamental knots, and it forms the basis of many others, including the simple noose, overhand loop, angler's loop, reef knot, fisherman's knot, and water knot. The overhand knot is a stopper, especially when used alone, and hence it is very secure, to the point of jamming badly.
The granny knot is a binding knot, used to secure a rope or line around an object.  It is considered inferior to the reef knot (square knot), which it superficially resembles.
S&amp;P 400 Component
In physics, a state of matter is one of the distinct forms in which matter can exist. Four states of matter are observable in everyday life: solid, liquid, gas, and plasma.
A miller's knot (also sack knot or bag knot) is a binding knot used to secure the opening of a sack or bag.  Historically, large sacks often contained grains; thus the association of these knots with the miller's trade.
Erebia}}
The constrictor knot is one of the most effective binding knots.Clifford W.
Civil liberties or personal freedoms are personal guarantees and freedoms that the government cannot abridge, either by law or by judicial interpretation, without due process. Though the scope of the term differs between countries, civil liberties may include the freedom from torture, freedom from forced disappearance, freedom of conscience, freedom of press, freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, the right to security and liberty, freedom of speech, the right to privacy, the right to equal treatment under the law and due process, the right to a fair trial, and the right to life.
An intranet is a private network accessible only to an organization's staff.&quot;The Difference Between Internet, Intranet, and Extranet&quot;, October 19, 1998, Steven L.
Womyn is one of several alternative spellings of the English word women used by some feminists.D.
Clit is a colloquial abbreviation for clitoris.
Nuke may refer to:
A noun (from Latin nōmen, literally meaning &quot;name&quot;) is a word that functions as the name of some specific thing or set of things, such as living creatures, objects, places, actions, qualities, states of existence, or ideas.Example nouns for:
The fisherman's knot is a bend (a knot for joining two lines) with a symmetrical structure consisting of two overhand knots, each tied around the standing part of the other. Other names for the fisherman's knot include: angler's knot, English knot, halibut knot, waterman's knot.
A terrarium (plural: terraria or terrariums) is usually a sealable glass container containing soil and plants, and can be opened for maintenance to access the plants inside. However, terraria can also be open to the atmosphere rather than being sealed.
Stock is a representation of capital paid or invested into a business entity by stockholders.
Garnets () are a group of silicate minerals that have been used since the Bronze Age as gemstones and abrasives.
thumb|right|300px|[[Lava flow on Hawaii. Lava is the extrusive equivalent of magma.
Respiration may refer to:
*The good, the bad, and the ugly. (substantive)
An adverb is a word that modifies a verb, adjective, another adverb, determiner, noun phrase, clause, or sentence. Adverbs typically express manner, place, time, frequency, degree, level of certainty, etc.
Depleted uranium (DU; also referred to in the past as Q-metal, depletalloy or D-38) is uranium with a lower content of the fissile isotope U-235 than natural uranium.: &quot;Depleted uranium possesses only 60% of the radioactivity of natural uranium, having been 'depleted' of much of its most highly radioactive U234 and U235 isotopes.
A shaped charge is an explosive charge shaped to focus the effect of the explosive's energy. Various types are used to cut and form metal, initiate nuclear weapons, penetrate armor, and &quot;complete&quot; wells in the oil and gas industry.
An anti-tank missile (ATM), anti-tank guided missile (ATGM), anti-tank guided weapon (ATGW) or anti-armor guided weapon, is a guided missile primarily designed to hit and destroy heavily armored military vehicles.
Hassan, Hasan, Hassane, Haasana, Hassaan,  Asan, Hassun, Hasun, Hassen, Hasson or  Hasani may refer to
Belur may refer to any of the following:
right|thumb|250px|Profile of a Hoysala temple at [[Somanathapura]]
The Hoysala empire was a prominent Kannadiga empire that ruled most of the what is now Karnataka, India between the 10th and the 14th centuries. The capital of the Hoysalas was initially located at Belur but was later moved to Halebidu.
(as A.L.
Commander Keen is a series of side-scrolling platform video games developed primarily by id Software. The series consists of six main episodes, a &quot;lost&quot; episode, and a final game; all but the final game were originally released for MS-DOS in 1990 and 1991, while the 2001 Commander Keen was released for the Game Boy Color.
}}
APL
DDR may refer to:
Palm or Palms may refer to:
}}
thumb|Head of Thetis from an Attic red-figure pelike, c. 510–500 BC, [[Louvre.
In political science, Duverger's law holds that  plurality-rule elections (such as first past the post) structured within single-member districts tend to favor a two-party system and that &quot;the double ballot majority system and proportional representation tend to favor multipartism&quot;.
Enriched uranium is a type of uranium in which the percent composition of uranium-235 has been increased through the process of isotope separation. Natural uranium is 99.
This is a list of notable political scientists. See the list of political theorists for those who study political theory.
Wichita, Kansas, U.S.
Downey, California
Chardonnay () is a green-skinned grape variety used in the production of white wine.  The variety originated in the Burgundy wine region of eastern France, but is now grown wherever wine is produced, from England to New Zealand .
Chinese law is one of the oldest legal traditions in the world.  In the 20th and 21st century, law in China has been a complex mix of traditional Chinese approaches and appropriation of Western conventions.
Head of government is a generic term used for either the highest or second highest official in the executive branch of a sovereign state, a federated state, or a self-governing colony, (commonly referred to as countries, nations or nation-states) who often presides over a cabinet, a group of ministers or secretaries who lead executive departments. The term &quot;head of government&quot; is often differentiated from the term &quot;head of state&quot;, (e.
Cordelia Chase is a fictional character created by Joss Whedon for the television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer; she also appeared on Buffy's spin-off series, Angel. Portrayed by Charisma Carpenter, the character appears as a series regular in the first three seasons of Buffy, before exiting the show and becoming a series regular during the first four seasons of Angel.
An airport is an aerodrome with extended facilities, mostly for commercial air transport.Wragg, D.
(2nd title)}}
 (50 goals)
The 1996 EHF European Men's Handball Championship (2nd tournament) was held in Spain from 24 May–2 June, in the cities of Ciudad Real and Seville. Russia won the tournament with Spain second and Yugoslavia the third.
The 1998 EHF European Men's Handball Championship (3rd tournament) was held in Italy from 29 May–7 June, in the cities of Meran and Bolzano. Sweden won the tournament with Spain second and Germany third.
The 2000 EHF European Men's Handball Championship (4th tournament) was held in Croatia from 21–30 January, in the cities of Zagreb and Rijeka. Sweden won the tournament with Russia second and Spain third.
(58 goals)
This list of wine-producing regions catalogues significant growing regions where vineyards are planted. Wine grapes mostly grow between the 30th and the 50th degree of latitude, in both the Northern and Southern hemispheres.
A museum ( ; plural musea or museums) is an institution that cares for (conserves) a collection of artifacts and other objects of artistic, cultural, historical, or scientific importance.  Many public museums make these items available for public viewing through exhibits that may be permanent or temporary.
A U-Boot is a beer cocktail (popular in Germany, Poland, Macedonia, and Flanders)  that is made with a glass of beer and a shot glass of vodka.Info about the Polish national football team, see the &quot;Perfect Night watching, What to drink…&quot; sectionRecipe for an U-boot/U-boat drink (in Polish) In Germany, the liquor korn is sometimes used instead, while in Flanders and the Netherlands, jonge jenever is preferred.
Cabernet Sauvignon () is one of the world's most widely recognized red wine grape varieties. It is grown in nearly every major wine producing country among a diverse spectrum of climates from Canada's Okanagan Valley to Lebanon's Beqaa Valley.
Grey matter (or gray matter) is a major component of the central nervous system, consisting of neuronal cell bodies, neuropil (dendrites and myelinated as well as unmyelinated axons), glial cells (astroglia and oligodendrocytes), synapses, and capillaries. Grey matter is distinguished from white matter, in that it contains numerous cell bodies and relatively few myelinated axons, while white matter contains relatively very few cell bodies and is composed chiefly of long-range myelinated axon tracts.
Axis may refer to:
Eagle is a common name for many large birds of prey of the family Accipitridae; it belongs to several groups of genera that are not necessarily closely related to each other.
Baltic may refer to:
Kanji (;  ), or kan'ji, are the adopted logographic Chinese characters () that are used in the modern Japanese writing system along with hiragana and katakana. The Japanese term kanji for the Chinese characters literally means &quot;Han characters&quot; and is written using the same characters as the Chinese word .
(2017-18)
The putamen () is a round structure located at the base of the forebrain (telencephalon). The putamen and caudate nucleus together form the dorsal striatum.
Reward system
In linguistics, voicelessness is the property of sounds being pronounced without the larynx vibrating. Phonologically, it is a type of phonation, which contrasts with other states of the larynx, but some object that the word phonation implies voicing and that voicelessness is the lack of phonation.
A finger is a limb of the human body and a type of digit, an organ of [and sensation] found in the [[hands of humans and other primates.Chambers 1998 page 603Oxford Illustrated pages 311,380
Venus (, Classical Latin: ) is the Roman goddess whose functions encompassed love, beauty, desire, sex, fertility, prosperity and victory. In Roman mythology, she was the mother of the Roman people through her son, Aeneas, who survived the fall of Troy and fled to Italy.
A neutron bomb, officially defined as a type of enhanced radiation weapon (ERW), is a low yield thermonuclear weapon designed to maximize lethal neutron radiation in the immediate vicinity of the blast while minimizing the physical power of the blast itself. The neutron release generated by a nuclear fusion reaction is intentionally allowed to escape the weapon, rather than being absorbed by its other components.
Fighting Fantasy is a series of single-player role-playing gamebooks created by Steve Jackson and Ian Livingstone. The first volume in the series was published by Puffin in 1982.
Mount Aetna may refer to:
The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (also known as &quot;NASEM&quot; or &quot;the National Academies&quot;) is the collective scientific National Academy of the United States (US).  The name is used interchangeably in two senses: (1) as an umbrella term for its three quasi-independent honorific member organizations (the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the National Academy of Medicine (NAM)).
A nucleophile is a chemical species that donates an electron pair to an electrophile to form a chemical bond in relation to a reaction. All molecules or ions with a free pair of electrons or at least one pi bond can act as nucleophiles.
Lumbar disc disease is the drying out of the spongy interior matrix of an intervertebral disc in the spine. Many physicians and patients use the term lumbar disc disease to encompass several different causes of back pain or sciatica.
}}
Rationalism may refer to:
Tiscali may refer to:
The amplitude of a periodic variable is a measure of its change over a single period (such as time or spatial period). There are various definitions of amplitude (see below), which are all functions of the magnitude of the difference between the variable's extreme values.
Period may refer to:
Owls are birds from the order Strigiformes, which includes about 200 species of mostly solitary and nocturnal birds of prey typified by an upright stance, a large, broad head, binocular vision, binaural hearing, sharp talons, and feathers adapted for silent flight. Exceptions include the diurnal northern hawk-owl and the gregarious burrowing owl.
CVS may refer to:
This is an incomplete list of organisms that are true parasites upon other organisms also see Jeremy Hunt feeding on NHS. For information on parasitoids, see main article: Parasitoid.
(aged 72)
(age 65)
Pope Leo V (845 – 28 February 904) was Pope from July 903 to his death in 904. He was pope during the period known as the Saeculum obscurum.
Pope Leo VI (880 - 12 February 929) was Pope for just over seven months, from June 928 to his death in February 929. His pontificate occurred during the period known as the Saeculum obscurum.
(aged 90)
Aristocracy (Greek ἀριστοκρατία aristokratía, from  ἄριστος aristos &quot;excellent&quot;, and κράτος kratos &quot;power&quot;) is a form of government that places power in the hands of a small, privileged ruling class. The term derives from the Greek aristokratia, meaning &quot;rule of the best&quot;.
A symbol is a mark, sign, or word that indicates, signifies, or is understood as representing an idea, object, or relationship. Symbols allow people to go beyond what is known or seen by creating linkages between otherwise very different concepts and experiences.
Duck is the common name for a large number of species in the waterfowl family Anatidae, which also includes swans and geese. The ducks are divided among several subfamilies in the family Anatidae; they do not represent a monophyletic group (the group of all descendants of a single common ancestral species) but a form taxon, since swans and geese are not considered ducks.
Denver is the capital of the U.S.
thumb|Iris Pruysen competes in the [[long jump at the 2014 Paris Athletics Paralympic Meeting.]]
Gaelic football (Irish: Peil Ghaelach; short name Peil or Caid), commonly referred to as football or Gaelic,The sport is also sometimes referred to in Dublin as &quot;Gah&quot;: see ;  is an Irish team sport. It is played between two teams of 15 players on a rectangular grass pitch.
Martin Brennan is a computer engineer who developed pioneering personal computers such as the Loki (for Sinclair Research) and the Atari Jaguar video game console.
A seed is an embryonic plant enclosed in a protective outer covering. The formation of the seed is part of the process of reproduction in seed plants, the spermatophytes, including the gymnosperm and angiosperm plants.
The history of East Asia covers the people inhabiting the eastern subregion of the Asian continent known as East Asia from prehistoric times to the present. The best known ancient civilization of prehistoric East Asia was China, which flourished in the central plain region and continued until present day.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the history of South Asia:
}}
The covalent radius, rcov, is a measure of the size of an atom that forms part of one covalent bond. It is usually measured either in picometres (pm) or angstroms (Å), with 1 Å = 100 pm.
A flare, also sometimes called a fusee, is a type of pyrotechnic that produces a brilliant light or intense heat without an explosion.  Flares are used for signalling, illumination, or defensive countermeasures in civilian and military applications.
thumb|280px|Temperature-dependency of the heats of vaporization for water, methanol, benzene, and acetone.
A chemical patent, pharmaceutical patent or drug patent is a patent for an invention in the chemical or pharmaceuticals industry. Strictly speaking, in most jurisdictions, there are essentially no differences between the legal requirements to obtain a patent for an invention in the chemical or pharmaceutical fields, in comparison to obtaining a patent in the other fields, such as in the mechanical field.
The Merchant of Venice is a 16th-century play by William Shakespeare in which a merchant in Venice must default on a large loan provided by an abused Jewish moneylender. It is believed to have been written between 1596 and 1599.
Allegro may refer to:
Presto may refer to:
Crescendo is a passage of music during which the volume gradually increases.
Staccato  (Italian for &quot;detached&quot;) is a form of musical articulation. In modern notation it signifies a note of shortened duration,Willi Apel, Harvard Dictionary of Music (Cambridge, Massachusetts: Harvard University Press, 1960), p.
In music performance and notation, legato  (Italian for &quot;tied together&quot;; French lié; German gebunden) indicates that musical notes are played or sung smoothly and connected. That is, the player makes a transition from note to note with no intervening silence.
Largo may refer to:
Tuning can refer to:
Willow Danielle Rosenberg is a fictional character created for the fantasy television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1997–2003). She was developed by Joss Whedon and portrayed throughout the TV series by Alyson Hannigan.
}}
Shamrock knot
Blancmange ( or , from French blanc-manger ) is a sweet dessert commonly made with milk or cream and sugar thickened with gelatin, cornstarch or Irish moss (a source of carrageenan), and often flavoured with almonds.
A melody (&quot;singing, chanting&quot;), also tune, voice, or line, is a linear succession of musical tones that the listener perceives as a single entity. In its most literal sense, a melody is a combination of pitch and rhythm, while more figuratively, the term can include successions of other musical elements such as tonal color.
The Invisible Man is a science fiction novella by H. G.
Soil is a mixture of minerals, organic matter, gases, liquids, and countless organisms that together support life on Earth. Soil is a natural body called the pedosphere which has four important functions: it is a medium for plant growth; it is a means of water storage, supply and purification; it is a modifier of Earth's atmosphere; it is a habitat for organisms; all of which, in turn, modify the soil.
The Illustrated Man is a 1951 collection of eighteen science fiction short stories by American writer Ray Bradbury. A recurring theme throughout the eighteen stories is the conflict of the cold mechanics of technology and the psychology of people.
A political theorist is someone who engages in constructing or evaluating political theory, including political philosophy. Theorists may be  academics or independent scholars.
Mead (; archaic and dialectal meath or meathe,Recipes from Kenelme Digbie, 1669 –  from Old English [encyclopedia
with 0.50 caliber machine gun at the commander's station
The Bell AH-1 Cobra is a two-blade, single-engine attack helicopter manufactured by Bell Helicopter. It was developed using the engine, transmission and rotor system of the Bell UH-1 Iroquois.
The Boeing AH-64 Apache is an American four-blade, twin-turboshaft attack helicopter with a tailwheel-type landing gear arrangement and a tandem cockpit for a two-man crew. It features a nose-mounted sensor suite for target acquisition and night vision systems.
The British North America Acts 1867–1975 are the original names of a series of Acts at the core of the constitution of Canada. They were enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom and the Parliament of Canada.
}}
Isis (;  ; original Egyptian pronunciation more likely &quot;Aset&quot; or &quot;Iset&quot;) is a goddess from the polytheistic pantheon of Egypt. She was first worshiped in ancient Egyptian religion, and later her worship spread throughout the Roman Empire and the greater Greco-Roman world.
A mountain is a large landform that stretches above the surrounding land in a limited area, usually in the form of a peak. A mountain is generally steeper than a hill.
Tamar the Great (, Tamari) ( 1160 – 18 January 1213) reigned as the Queen of Georgia from 1184 to 1213, presiding over the apex of the Georgian Golden Age.. A member of the Bagrationi dynasty, her position as the first woman to rule Georgia in her own right was emphasized by the title mepe (&quot;king&quot;), afforded to Tamar in the medieval Georgian sources.
Patch collecting or badge collecting (also, scutelliphily, from Latin scutellus meaning little shield, and Greek phileein meaning to love) is the hobby of collecting souvenir patches or badges.
Lyonnaise}}
The Dragon Book may refer to:
}}}}
A luge  is a small one- or two-person sled on which one sleds supine (face up) and feet-first. Steering is done by flexing the sled's runners with the calf of each leg or exerting opposite shoulder pressure to the seat.
The Anglo-Saxons were a people who inhabited Great Britain from the 5th century. They comprise people from Germanic tribes who migrated to the island from continental Europe, their descendants, and indigenous British groups who adopted some aspects of Anglo-Saxon culture and language.
Media of Venezuela comprise the mass and niche news and information communications infrastructure of Venezuela. Thus, the media of Venezuela consists of several different types of communications media: television, radio, newspapers, magazines, cinema, and Internet-based news outlets and websites.
Monte Cassino (sometimes written Montecassino) is a rocky hill about   southeast of Rome, Italy,  to the west of the town of Cassino and  altitude. Site of the Roman town of Casinum, it is best known for its historic abbey.
Jurassic – Recent
Felix Edmundovich Dzerzhinsky (Russian: Фе́ликс Эдму́ндович Дзержи́нский;}} Polish: Feliks Dzierżyński ; 20 July 1926), nicknamed Iron Felix, was a Polish and Soviet Bolshevik revolutionary and a Soviet statesman. His party pseudonyms were Yatsek, Yakub, Pereplyotchik (meaning &quot;bookbinder&quot;), Franek, Astronom, Yuzef and Domanski.
Hilbert's paradox of the Grand Hotel, or simply Hilbert's Hotel, is a thought experiment which illustrates a counterintuitive property of infinite sets. It is demonstrated that a fully occupied hotel with infinitely many rooms may still accommodate additional guests, even infinitely many of them, and that this process may be repeated infinitely often.
thumb|240px|Drill for dendrochronology sampling and growth ring counting
Cubism is an early-20th-century art movement which brought European painting and sculpture historically forward toward 20th century Modern art. Cubism in its various forms inspired related movements in music, literature and architecture.
Catalase is a common enzyme found in nearly all living organisms exposed to oxygen (such as bacteria, plants, and animals). It catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
Bulgakov () is a Russian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
The Möbius strip or Möbius band ( (non-rhotic) or ; ), also spelled Mobius or Moebius, is a surface with only one side (when embedded in three-dimensional Euclidean space) and only one boundary. The Möbius strip has the mathematical property of being unorientable.
The SAT (formerly Scholastic Aptitude Test, Scholastic Assessment Test, SAT I: Reasoning Test, and SAT Reasoning Test) is a college admissions test in the United States.
CNF may refer to:
DNF may refer to:
A solid-propellant rocket or solid rocket is a rocket with a rocket engine that uses solid propellants (fuel/oxidizer). The earliest rockets were solid-fuel rockets powered by gunpowder; they were used in warfare by the Chinese, Indians, Mongols and Persians, as early as the 13th century.
A hybrid-propellant rocket is a rocket with a rocket motor which uses rocket propellants in two different phases. - one solid and the other either gas or liquid.
A monopropellant rocket (or &quot;monoprop rocket&quot;) is a rocket that uses a single chemical as its propellant.
Dual mode propulsion systems combine the high efficiency of bipropellant rockets with the reliability and simplicity of monopropellant rockets. Dual mode systems are either hydrazine/nitrogen tetroxide, or monomethylhydrazine/hydrogen peroxide (the former is much more common).
A resistojet is a method of spacecraft propulsion (electric propulsion) that provides thrust by heating a (typically non-reactive) fluid. Heating is usually achieved by sending electricity through a resistor consisting of a hot incandescent filament, with the expanded gas expelled through a conventional nozzle.
An arcjet rocket or arcjet thruster is a form of electrically powered spacecraft propulsion, in which an electrical discharge (arc) is created in a flow of propellantJohn, R. R.
thumb|2 kW Hall thruster in operation as part of the Hall Thruster Experiment at the [[Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory]]
An ion thruster or ion drive is a form of electric propulsion used for spacecraft propulsion. It creates thrust by accelerating ions with electricity.
thumb|right|An MPD thruster during test firing
A pulsed plasma thruster (PPT), also known as a plasma jet engine, is a form of electric spacecraft propulsion.  PPTs are generally considered the simplest form of electric spacecraft propulsion and were the first form of electric propulsion to be flown in space, having flown on two Soviet probes (Zond 2 and Zond 3) starting in 1964.
A nuclear thermal rocket is a proposed spacecraft propulsion technology. In a nuclear thermal rocket a working fluid, usually liquid hydrogen, is heated to a high temperature in a nuclear reactor, and then expands through a rocket nozzle to create thrust.
In a Nuclear Electric Rocket (also known as nuclear electric propulsion and space nuclear fission electric power systemsDavid Buden (2011), Space Nuclear Fission Electric Power Systems: Book 3: Space Nuclear Propulsion and PowerJoseph A. Angelo &amp; David Buden (1985), Space Nuclear PowerNASA/JPL/MSFC/UAH 12th Annual Advanced Space Propulsion Workshop (2001), The Safe Affordable Fission Engine (SAFE) Test Series)NASA (2010), Small Fission Power System Feasibility Study Final ReportPatrick McClure &amp; David Poston (2013), Design and Testing of Small Nuclear Reactors for Defense and Space ApplicationsMohamed S.
thumb|300px|Artist's conception of a mass driver on the [[Moon.]]
A magnetic sail or magsail is a proposed method of spacecraft propulsion which would use a static magnetic field to deflect charged particles radiated by the Sun as a plasma wind, and thus impart momentum to accelerate the spacecraft.D.
A gas nuclear reactor (or gas fueled reactor) is a proposed kind of nuclear reactor in which the nuclear fuel would be in a gaseous state rather than liquid or solid. In this type of reactor, the only temperature-limiting materials would be the reactor walls.
A nuclear salt-water rocket (NSWR) is a theoretical type of nuclear thermal rocket which was designed by Robert Zubrin. In place of traditional chemical propellant, such as that in a chemical rocket, the rocket would be fueled by salts of 20 percent enriched uranium or plutonium.
Beam-powered propulsion, also known as directed energy propulsion, is a class of aircraft or spacecraft propulsion that uses energy beamed to the spacecraft from a remote power plant to provide energy. The beam is typically either a microwave or a laser beam and it is either pulsed or continuous.
In a nuclear photonic rocket, a nuclear reactor would generate such high temperatures that the blackbody radiation from the reactor would provide significant thrust.  The disadvantage is that it takes a lot of power to generate a small amount of thrust this way, so acceleration is very slow.
A fusion rocket is a theoretical design for a rocket driven by fusion power which could provide efficient and long-term acceleration in space without the need to carry a large fuel supply. The design relies on the development of fusion power technology beyond current capabilities, and the construction of rockets much larger and more complex than any current spacecraft.
thumb|280px|Artist's conception of a Bussard ramjet. A major component of an actual ramjet – a miles-wide electromagnetic field – is invisible.
An antimatter rocket is a proposed class of rockets that use antimatter as their power source. There are several designs that attempt to accomplish this goal.
thumbnail|350px|Two-dimensional visualization of an Alcubierre drive, showing the opposing regions of expanding and contracting spacetime that displace the central region
The Reformation (from Latin reformatio, literally &quot;restoration, renewal&quot;), also referred to as the Protestant Reformation, was a schism from the Roman Catholic Church initiated by Martin Luther and continued by John Calvin, Huldrych Zwingli, and other early Protestant Reformers in 16th century Europe. It is usually considered to have started with the publication of the Ninety-Five Theses by Luther in 1517, lasting until the end of the Thirty Years' War with the Peace of Westphalia in 1648.
The Ante-Nicene Fathers, subtitled &quot;The Writings of the Fathers Down to A.D.
In the field of digital signal processing, the sampling theorem is a fundamental bridge between continuous-time signals (often called &quot;analog signals&quot;) and discrete-time signals (often called &quot;digital signals&quot;). It establishes a sufficient condition for a sample rate that permits a discrete sequence of samples to capture all the information from a continuous-time signal of finite bandwidth.
A Select Library of the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers of the Christian Church, usually known as the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers (NPNF), is a set of books containing translations of early Christian writings into English. It was published between 1886 and 1900.
Porphyry (; , Porphyrios &quot;purple-clad&quot;) may refer to:
A beta particle, sometimes called beta ray, denoted by the lower-case Greek letter beta (β), is a high-energy, high-speed electron or positron emitted in the radioactive decay of an atomic nucleus, such as a potassium-40 nucleus, in the process of beta decay. Two forms of beta decay, β− and β+, respectively produce electrons and positrons.
}}
Thrust is a reaction force described quantitatively by Isaac Newton's second and third laws. When a system expels or accelerates mass in one direction, the accelerated mass will cause a force of equal magnitude but opposite direction on that system.
}}
The Collatz conjecture is a conjecture in mathematics named after Lothar Collatz. It concerns a sequence defined as follows: start with any positive integer n.
(present-day Tunisia)
Amelia may refer to:
Valerian (Valeriana officinalis, Caprifoliaceae) is a  perennial flowering plant, with heads of sweetly scented pink or white flowers that bloom in the summer and can reach a height of . Valerian flower extracts were used as a perfume in the 16th century.
A spacecraft is a vehicle, or machine designed to fly in outer space. Spacecraft are used for a variety of purposes, including communications, earth observation, meteorology, navigation, space colonization, planetary exploration, and transportation of humans and cargo.
In physics, escape velocity is the minimum speed needed for an object to escape from the gravitational influence of a massive body.
Pietro Antonio Stefano Mascagni (; 7 December 1863 – 2 August 1945) was an Italian composer most noted for his operas.  His 1890 masterpiece Cavalleria Rusticana caused one of the greatest sensations in opera history and single-handedly ushered in the Verismo movement in Italian dramatic music.
Giuseppe Saverio Raffaele Mercadante (baptised 17 September 179517 December 1870) was an Italian composer, particularly of operas.  While Mercadante may not have retained the international celebrity of Gaetano Donizetti or Gioachino Rossini beyond his own lifetime, he composed as impressive a number of works as either; and his development of operatic structures, melodic styles and orchestration contributed significantly to the foundations upon which Giuseppe Verdi built his dramatic technique.
Domenico Gaetano Maria Donizetti (; 29 November 1797 – 8 April 1848) was an Italian composer. Along with Gioachino Rossini and Vincenzo Bellini, Donizetti was a leading composer of the bel canto opera style during the first half of the nineteenth century.
The Bell OH-58 Kiowa is a family of single-engine, single-rotor, military helicopters used for observation, utility, and direct fire support. Bell Helicopter manufactured the OH-58 for the United States Army based on its Model 206A JetRanger helicopter.
The following is a list of published compositions by the composer Giuseppe Verdi (1813–1901).
Ruggero (or Ruggiero)His first name is also spelled &quot;Ruggiero&quot; in many sources. His birth certificate lists his full name as &quot;Ruggiero Giacomo Maria Giuseppe Emmanuele Raffaele Domenico Vincenzo Francesco Donato Leoncavallo&quot;.
thumb|right|Francesco Cilea circa 1910
The Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk is a four-bladed, twin-engine, medium-lift utility helicopter manufactured by Sikorsky Aircraft. Sikorsky submitted the S-70 design for the United States Army's Utility Tactical Transport Aircraft System (UTTAS) competition in 1972.
thumb|Domenico Cimarosa
right|thumb|220px|Giovanni Pacini c. 1835 (original etching by G.
thumb|right|250px|Paisiello at the clavichord, by [[Marie Louise Élisabeth Vigée-Lebrun, 1791. The score is Nina, o sia La pazza per amore.
The unexpected hanging paradox or hangman paradox is a paradox about a person's expectations about the timing of a future event that he or she is told will occur at an unexpected time. The paradox is variously applied to a prisoner's hanging, or a surprise school test.
}}
In computer science, best, worst, and average cases of a given algorithm express what the resource usage is at least, at most and on average, respectively. Usually the resource being considered is running time, i.
Olga Algayerova
ECE is an initialism with disparate meanings, including:
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is an international financial institution founded in 1991. As a multilateral developmental investment bank, the EBRD uses investment as a tool to build market economies.
Pliny may refer to:
The Stimson Doctrine is a policy of the United States federal government, enunciated in a note of January 7, 1932, to  the Empire of Japan and the Republic of China, of non-recognition of international territorial changes that were executed by force. The doctrine was an application of the principle of ex injuria jus non oritur.
Pike, Pikes or The Pike may refer to:
9.5–10 million
thumb|[[Pearl millet in the field]]
thumbnail|right|280px|Typex was based on the commercial Enigma machine, but incorporated a number of additional features to improve the security. This model, a Typex 22, was a late variant, incorporating two plugboards.
WCL may stand for:
}}
The boa knot is a modern  binding knot invented by weaver Peter Collingwood in 1996.  His intention was to develop a knot that would hold well when the constricted object was cut close to the winds of the knot.
The Hippocratic Oath is an oath historically taken by physicians. It is one of the most widely known of Greek medical texts.
Toilet paper is a tissue paper product used by people primarily for cleaning the anus and surrounding area of fecal material after defecation and by women for cleaning the perineal area of urine after urination and other bodily fluid releases. It also acts as a layer of protection for the hands during these processes.
Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance Convention of Republican Institutions Socialist Party
The Boeing CH-47 Chinook is an American twin-engine, tandem-rotor, heavy-lift helicopter.  Its primary roles are troop movement, artillery placement, and battlefield resupply.
Julian day is the continuous count of days since the beginning of the Julian Period and is used primarily by astronomers.
The Bell UH-1 Iroquois (nicknamed &quot;Huey&quot;) is a utility military helicopter powered by a single turboshaft engine, with two-blade main and tail rotors. The first member of the prolific Huey family, it was developed by Bell Helicopter to meet a United States Army's 1952 requirement for a medical evacuation and utility helicopter, and first flew in 1956.
}}
The Roman triumph () was a civil ceremony and religious rite of ancient Rome, held to publicly celebrate and sanctify the success of a military commander who had led Roman forces to victory in the service of the state or, originally and traditionally, one who had successfully completed a foreign war.
Epic or E.P.
Pg.67
Gregory of Nyssa, also known as Gregory Nyssen (; c. 335 – c.
Yemeni Civil War (2015-present),  Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen   Syrian Civil War
In logic, a many-valued logic (also multi- or multiple-valued logic) is a propositional calculus in which there are more than two truth values. Traditionally, in Aristotle's logical calculus, there were only two possible values (i.
A ballistic missile is a missile that follows a ballistic trajectory with the objective of delivering one or more warheads to a predetermined target. A ballistic missile is only guided during relatively brief periods of flight (there are unguided ballistic missiles as well, such as 9K52 Luna-M, although these may well be considered rockets), and most of its trajectory is unpowered and governed by gravity and air resistance if in the atmosphere.
Risa may refer to:
}}
The MGM-31A Pershing was the missile used in the Pershing 1 and Pershing 1a field artillery missile systems. It was a solid-fueled two-stage ballistic missile designed and built by Martin Marietta to replace the PGM-11 Redstone missile as the primary nuclear-capable theater-level weapon of the United States Army and replaced the MGM-1 Matador cruise missiles operated by the German Air Force.
Human skin color ranges in variety from the darkest brown to the lightest hues. An individual's skin pigmentation is the result of genetics, being the product of both of the individual's biological parents' genetic makeup.
Heavy Equipment Transport System (abbreviated as HETS) is a term applied (primarily) to a U.S.
(FIM-92C Stinger-RMP)
The United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH) was an international organization formed under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1035 on 21 December 1995. It completed its mandate on 31 December 2002, when it was succeeded by the European Union Police Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Theodoret of Cyrus or Cyrrhus (; c. AD 393 – c.
PCA or PCa may refer to:
Matthew of Kraków (c. 1335 – 5 March 1410) was a renowned German-Polish scholar and priest of the fourteenth century.
in diameter
Gender is the range of characteristics pertaining to, and differentiating between, masculinity and femininity. Depending on the context, these characteristics may include biological sex (i.
)
thumb|[[Heroin, a powerful opioid and narcotic.]]
thumb|Gender changer
http://www.cuni.
}}
MGM-51B/C:
thumb|Purported portrait of Pergolesi presented by his biographer Florimo to the Naples Conservatory
BMX, an abbreviation for bicycle motocross, is a cycle sport performed on BMX bikes, either in competitive BMX racing or freestyle BMX, or else in general on- or off-road recreation. BMX began when young cyclists appropriated motocross tracks for fun, racing and stunts, eventually evolving  specialized BMX bikes and competitions.
Actual infinity is the idea that numbers, or some other type of mathematical object, can form an actual, completed totality; namely, a set. Hence, in the philosophy of mathematics, the abstraction of actual infinity involves the acceptance of infinite entities, such as the set of all natural numbers or an infinite sequence of rational numbers, as given objects.
Keep the Aspidistra Flying, first published in 1936, is a socially critical novel by George Orwell. It is set in 1930s London.
Crucifixion is a method  of capital punishment  in which the victim is tied, nailed, or otherwise attached Flavius Josephus - &quot;The JEWISH WARS OR HISTORY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF JERUSALEM&quot; - Book II Chapter 16:9 or Book V Chapter 11:1. Translated by William Whiston.
Grey or gray is a neutral color between black and white.
Peperomia (radiator plant) is one of the 2 large genera of the Piperaceae family, with more than 1000 recorded species. Most of them are compact, small perennial epiphytes growing on rotten wood.
Mystery plays (perhaps from the Latin &quot;ministerium&quot; meaning &quot;occupation&quot;) and miracle plays (they are distinguished as two different forms'Properly speaking, Mysteries deal with Gospel events only). Miracle Plays, on the other hand, are concerned with incidents derived from the legends of the saints of the Church.
Bullhead may refer to:
In mathematics, the Cauchy–Schwarz inequality, also known as the Cauchy–Bunyakovsky–Schwarz inequality, is a useful inequality encountered in many different settings, such as linear algebra, analysis, probability theory, vector algebra and other areas. It is considered to be one of the most important inequalities in all of mathematics.
Her Majesty's Prison Maze (previously Long Kesh Detention Centre and known colloquially as the Maze Prison, The Maze, the H Blocks or Long Kesh) was a prison in Northern Ireland that was used to house paramilitary prisoners during the Troubles from mid-1971 to mid-2000.
A seal is a device for making an impression in wax, clay, paper, or some other medium, including an embossment on paper, and is also the impression thus made. The original purpose was to authenticate a document, a wrapper for one such as a modern envelope, or the cover of a container or package holding valuables or other objects.
A wide area network (WAN) is a telecommunications network or computer network that extends over a large geographical distance. Wide area networks are often established with leased telecommunication circuits.
Milford Howell Wolpoff is a paleoanthropologist working as a professor of anthropology and adjunct associate research scientist, Museum of Anthropology, at the University of Michigan. He was born in 1942 to Ruth (Silver) and Ben Wolpoff, in Chicago.
110,000
}} Majesty's pleasure]]
(Mk 66 Mod 4 rocket motor only).
thumb|upright=0.9|Lingerie displayed as for point-of-sale promotion
Rocher des Doms, Palais des Papes,Avignon Cathedral, Festival d'Avignon,Pont Saint-Bénézet
Bi-curious is a phenomenon in which people of a heterosexual or homosexual identity who, while showing some curiosity for sexual activity with a person of the sex they do not favor, distinguish themselves from the bisexual label. The term is sometimes used to describe a broad continuum of sexual orientation between heterosexuality and bisexuality.
Igor Fyodorovich Stravinsky (sometimes spelled Strawinski, Strawinsky, or Stravinskii; ; 6 April 1971) was a Russian-born composer, pianist, and conductor. He is widely considered one of the most important and influential composers of the 20th century.
A hot air balloon is a lighter than air aircraft consisting of a bag, called an envelope, which contains heated air. Suspended beneath is a [or wicker basket] (in some long-distance or high-altitude balloons, a [which carries passengers and (usually) a source of heat, in most cases an open flame.
The Avignon Papacy was the period from 1309 to 1376 during which seven successive popes resided in Avignon (then in the Kingdom of Arles, part of the Holy Roman Empire, now in France) rather than in Rome.The Avignon Papacy, P.
The Balthasar Behem Codex, also known as Codex Picturatus, is a collection of the charters, privileges and statutes of the burghers of the city of Kraków. Compiled in 1505, the codex was named for the chancellor at the time, Balthasar Behem.
thumb|[[History of clothing and textiles|Clothing in history, showing (from top) Egyptians, Ancient Greeks, Romans, Byzantines, Franks, and 13th through 15th century Europeans.]]
)
thumb|400px|Teenage girls being initiated into the [[Sande society, Sierra Leone, West Africa.[T.
Menstruation, also known as a period or monthly, is the regular discharge of blood and mucosal tissue from the inner lining of the uterus through the vagina. The first period usually begins between twelve and fifteen years of age, a point in time known as menarche.
Jobst of Moravia ( or Jošt Lucemburský;  or Jodokus von Mähren; c. 1354 – 18 January 1411), a member of the House of Luxembourg, was Margrave of Moravia from 1375, Duke of Luxembourg and Elector of Brandenburg from 1388 as well as elected King of Germany (King of the Romans) from 1410 until his death.
Footwear refers to garments worn on the feet, which originally serves to purpose of protection against adversities of the environment, usually regarding ground textures and temperature. Footwear in the manner of shoes therefore primarily serves the purpose to ease the locomotion and prevent injuries.
The Codex Manesse, Manesse Codex, or Große Heidelberger Liederhandschrift, Heidelberg, University of Heidelberg Library, Codex Palatinus Germanicus 848 is a Liederhandschrift (book of songs/poetry), the single most comprehensive source of Middle High German Minnesang poetry, written and illustrated between c. 1304 when the main part was completed, and c.
Numismatics is the study or collection of currency,  including coins, tokens, paper money, and related objects. While numismatists are often characterized as students or collectors of coins, the discipline also includes the broader study of money and other payment media used to resolve debts and the exchange of goods.
__NOTOC__
(paperback collected edition)
&quot;Fnord&quot; () is a word coined in 1965 by Kerry Thornley and Greg Hill in the Principia Discordia. It entered the popular culture after appearing in The Illuminatus!
Toilet humour, or scatological humour, is a type of off-colour humour dealing with defecation, urination and flatulence, and to a lesser extent vomiting and other body functions. It sees substantial crossover with sexual humour, such as dick jokes.
}}
Engineers are people who design, construct and test structures, materials and systems while considering the limitations imposed by practicality, regulation, safety, and cost. &quot;Science is knowledge based on observed facts and tested truths arranged in an orderly system that can be validated and communicated to other people.
Pitch may refer to:
300px|thumb|right|An above-ground [[Green Line (MBTA)|Green Line streetcar rumbles by, while a taxicab, privately owned vehicle, and person walking demonstrate some of the other ways of getting around the city.]]
Relation or relations may refer to anything that involves communicating with another person, group, society or country.
Tannhäuser (; Middle High German: Tanhûser) was a German Minnesinger and poet. Historically, his biography is obscure beyond the poetry, which dates between 1245 and 1265.
at the Bayreuth Festival
A uniform is a type of clothing worn by members of an organization while participating in that organization's activity. Modern uniforms are most often worn by armed forces and paramilitary organizations such as police, emergency services, security guards, in some workplaces and schools and by inmates in prisons.
Hepatitis is inflammation of the liver tissue. Some people have no symptoms whereas others develop yellow discoloration of the skin and whites of the eyes, poor appetite, vomiting, tiredness, abdominal pain, or diarrhea.
}}
Shiraz may refer to:
A wind tunnel is a tool used in aerodynamic research to study the effects of air moving past solid objects. A wind tunnel consists of a tubular passage with the object under test mounted in the middle.
thumb|200px|right|First page of the redacted 1753 edition of Manon LescautD
Abyssinian may refer to:
In chemistry and manufacturing, electrolysis is a technique that uses a direct electric current (DC) to drive an otherwise non-spontaneous chemical reaction. Electrolysis is commercially important as a stage in the separation of elements from naturally occurring sources such as ores using an electrolytic cell.
Epirus () is a geographical and historical region in southeastern Europe, now shared between Greece and Albania. It lies between the Pindus Mountains and the Ionian Sea, stretching from the Bay of Vlorë and the Acroceraunian mountains in the north to the Ambracian Gulf and the ruined Roman city of Nicopolis in the south..
}}
In mathematics, the dimension of a vector space V is the cardinality (i.e.
Lions' Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition, with Source Code by John Lions (1976) contains the complete source code of the 6th Edition Unix kernel plus a commentary. It is commonly referred to as the Lions book.
A musician (or instrumentalist) is a person who plays a musical instrument or is musically talented. Anyone who composes, conducts, or performs music may also be referred to as a musician.
In economics, inflation is  a sustained increase in the general price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time.See:
In economics, a depression is a sustained, long-term downturn in economic activity in one or more economies. It is a more severe economic downturn than a recession, which is a slowdown in economic activity over the course of a normal business cycle.
The Conference of European Schools for Advanced Engineering Education and Research (CESAER) is a non-profit association of leading engineering universities in Europe. CESAER was set up on May 10, 1990, with headquarters in Leuven, Belgium.
Madonna (from medieval Italian , meaning &quot;my lady&quot;) most commonly refers to:
}}
Sexual abstinence or sexual restraint is the practice of refraining from some or all aspects of sexual activity for medical, psychological, legal, social, financial, philosophical, moral, or religious reasons.  Asexuality is distinct from sexual abstinence; and celibacy is sexual abstinence generally motivated by factors such as an individual's personal or religious beliefs.
right|thumb|Pegmatite with blue [[corundum crystals]]
}}
Robert Ross is an American blues singer, songwriter, acoustic &amp; electric guitarist, slide guitarist, and harmonica player. He is the leader of the Robert Ross Band and The Jazz-Manian Devils.
A bong (also water pipe, billy, bing, or moof) is a filtration device generally used for smoking cannabis, tobacco, or other herbal substances.  In the bong shown in the photo, the gas flows from the lower port on the left to the upper port on the right.
Belisario (Belisarius) is a tragedia lirica (tragic opera) in three acts by Gaetano Donizetti. Salvadore Cammarano wrote the Italian libretto after Luigi Marchionni's adaptation of  play, Belisarius, first staged in Munich in 1820 and then (in Italian) in Naples in 1826.
The Continental Congress, also known as the Philadelphia Congress,  was a convention of delegates called together from the Thirteen Colonies which became the governing body of the United States during the American Revolution.
A cigar is a rolled bundle of dried and fermented tobacco leaf, produced in a variety of types and sizes to be smoked.
Descent may refer to:
(UNMIK)
A cigarette, or cigaret, is a small cylinder of  finely cut tobacco leaves rolled in thin paper for smoking. The cigarette is ignited at one end causing the cigarette to smoulder and allowing smoke to be inhaled from the other end, which is held in or to the mouth; in some cases, a cigarette holder may be used, as well.
Pāli
Horikawa can refer to:
Year 1107 (MCVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
}}
Harlequin (;  ,  , Old French Harlequin) is the best-known of the zanni or comic servant characters from the Italian Commedia dell'arte. The role is traditionally believed to have been introduced by Zan Ganassa in the late 16th century,Duchartre 1929, p.
200px|right|thumb|Sketch of [[Arlecchino|Harlequin, a popular zanni character]]
George Shipway (1908–1982) was a British author best known for his historical novels, but he also tried his hand at political satire in his book The Chilian Club.
thumb|right|Brighella, from the 16th century.
Columbina (in Italian Colombinahttp://www.treccani.
Mine, mines, or miners may refer to:
New Zealand consists of a large number of islands;  estimated around six hundred.
SDH may refer to:
Snakes and Ladders is an ancient Indian board game regarded today as a worldwide classic. It is played between two or more players on a gameboard having numbered, gridded squares.
Risk is a strategy board game of diplomacy, conflict and conquest for two to six players.  The standard version is played on a board depicting a political map of the earth, divided into forty-two territories, which are grouped into six continents.
350–370
Spoken English shows great variation across regions where it is the predominant language. This article provides an overview of the numerous identifiable variations in pronunciation; such distinctions usually derive from the phonetic inventory of local dialects, as well as from broader differences in the Standard English of different primary-speaking populations.
thumb|Portrait of Sebastian Münster by [[Christoph Amberger, c. 1552]]
This is a list of monarchs who ruled over the German territories of central Europe from the division of the Frankish Empire in 843 (by which a separate Eastern Frankish Kingdom was created), until the collapse of the German Empire in 1918. It also includes heads of the various German confederations after the collapse of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation in 1806, and head of the first federation state, the North German Confederation, from 1867 to 1871.
Natural rubber, also called India rubber or caoutchouc, as initially produced, consists of polymers of the organic compound isoprene, with minor impurities of other organic compounds, plus water. Malaysia and Indonesia are two of the leading rubber producers.
Jack O'Neill is a fictional character in the Stargate film and television series .
The year 2000 in Israel-Palestine marked the beginning of the al-Aqsa Intifada leading to a number of Palestinian and Israeli deaths.  For information about violence against Palestinians in relation to home demolitions during this period refer to house demolition in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.
Note: This compilation includes only those attacks that resulted in casualties. Attacks which did not kill or wound are not included.
Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR,  or ) is a method for allocating IP addresses and IP routing. The Internet Engineering Task Force introduced CIDR in 1993 to replace the previous addressing architecture of classful network design in the Internet.
Octet  may refer to:
Humour (British English) or humor (American English; see spelling differences) is the tendency of particular cognitive experiences to provoke laughter and provide amusement. The term derives from the humoral medicine of the ancient Greeks, which taught that the balance of fluids in the human body, known as humours (Latin: humor, &quot;body fluid&quot;), controlled human health and emotion.
Group sex is sexual behavior involving more than two participants.  Group sex can occur between people of all sexual orientations and genders.
Regression testing is a type of software testing which verifies that software which was previously developed and tested still performs the same way after it was changed or interfaced with other software. Changes may include software enhancements, patches, configuration changes, etc.
thumb|right|200px|The sparks created by striking steel against a piece of [[Ferrocerium|flint provide the activation energy to initiate combustion in this Bunsen burner. The blue flame sustains itself after the sparks stop because the continued combustion of the flame is now energetically favorable.
Electrode potential (or Electropotential), E, in chemistry or
thumb|upright|Peleus consigns Achilles to Chiron's care, white-ground [[lekythos by the Edinburgh Painter, c. 500 BC, (National Archaeological Museum of Athens)]]
 204/5
}}
Wool is the textile fiber obtained from sheep and other animals, including cashmere and mohair from goats, qiviut from muskoxen, angora from rabbits, and other types of wool from camelids.  Wool mainly consists of protein together with a few percent lipids.
Year 1103 (MCIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
was the 74th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  鳥羽天皇 (74) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
was the 75th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  崇徳天皇 (75) according to the traditional order of succession.Ponsonby-Fane, Richard.
Year 1164 (MCLXIV) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
A half reaction is either the oxidation or reduction reaction component of a redox reaction. A half reaction is obtained by considering the change in oxidation states of individual substances involved in the redox reaction.
Type XXI U-boats, also known as &quot;Elektroboote&quot; (German: &quot;electric boat&quot;), were a class of German diesel-electric submarines designed during the Second World War. The submarines were produced prematurely, and all of those built had significant defects.
}}
27 October 1439
In geometry, an affine transformation, affine mapBerger, Marcel (1987), p. 38.
The oxidation state, often called the oxidation number, is an indicator of the degree of oxidation (loss of electrons) of an atom in a chemical compound.  Conceptually, the oxidation state, which may be positive, negative or zero,  is the hypothetical charge that an atom would have if all bonds to atoms of different elements were 100% ionic, with no covalent component.
The gravitational constant, also known as the universal gravitational constant, or as Newton's constant, denoted by the letter , is an empirical physical constant involved in the calculation of gravitational effects  in Sir Isaac Newton's law of universal gravitation and in Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity. Its measured value is
The Space Shuttle program was the United States government's manned launch vehicle program,  administered by NASA from 1972 to 2011 and first flown in 1981. Its official name, Space Transportation System (STS), was taken from a 1969 plan for a system of reusable spacecraft of which it was the only item funded for development.
}}
Fall back is a feature of a modem protocol in data communication whereby two communicating modems which experience data corruption (due to line noise, for example) can renegotiate with each other to use a lower-speed connection.  Fall forward is a corresponding feature whereby two modems which have &quot;fallen back&quot; to a lower speed can later return to the higher speed if the connection improves.
Shakespearean tragedy is the designation given to most tragedies written by playwright William Shakespeare. Many of his history plays share the qualifiers of a Shakespearean tragedy, but because they are based on real figures throughout the History of England, they were classified as &quot;histories&quot; in the First Folio.
Singer Corporation is an American manufacturer of sewing machines, first established as I. M.
The human voice consists of sound made by a human being using the vocal folds for talking, singing, laughing, crying, screaming, etc. The human voice frequency is specifically a part of human sound production in which the vocal folds (vocal cords) are the primary sound source.
= |day=-47|format=F j}}
Carnival (see other spellings and names) is a Western Christian festive season that occurs before the liturgical season of Lent. The main events typically occur during February or early March, during the period historically known as Shrovetide (or Pre-Lent).
Artois (; adjective Artesian; ) is a region of northern France. Its territory has an area of around 4,000 km² and a population of about one million.
This list of Anuran families shows all extant families of Anura. Anura is the name of an order of animals in the class Amphibia that includes frogs and toads.
}}
A genus (,  genera) is a taxonomic rank used in the biological classification of living and fossil organisms in biology. In the hierarchy of biological classification, genus comes above species and below family.
Tiling may refer to:
Toad is a common name for certain frogs, especially of the family Bufonidae, that are characterized by dry, leathery skin, short legs, and large bumps covering the parotoid glands. amphibian|work=Encyclopedia Britannica|access-date=2017-05-23|language=en}}
A knight's tour is a sequence of moves of a knight on a chessboard such that the knight visits every square only once. If the knight ends on a square that is one knight's move from the beginning square (so that it could tour the board again immediately, following the same path), the tour is closed, otherwise it is open.
The plesiochronous digital hierarchy (PDH) is a technology used in telecommunications networks to transport large quantities of data over digital transport equipment such as fibre optic and microwave radio systems. The term plesiochronous is derived from Greek plēsios, meaning near, and chronos, time, and refers to the fact that PDH networks run in a state where different parts of the network are nearly, but not quite perfectly, synchronized.
In the 1980s the telecommunications industry expected that digital services would follow much the same pattern as voice services did on the public switched telephone network, and conceived an end-to-end circuit switched services, known as Broadband Integrated Services Digital Network (B-ISDN).
Lyrics are words that make up a song usually consisting of verses and choruses. The writer of lyrics is a lyricist.
Bill Viola (born 1951) is a contemporary video artist whose artistic expression depends upon electronic, sound, and image technology in New Media.Ross, David A.
In the administrative divisions of France, the department (, ) is one of the three levels of government below the national level (&quot;territorial collectivities&quot;), between the administrative regions and the commune. There are 96 departments in metropolitan France, and 5 overseas departments, which are also classified as regions.
Bayesian refers to methods in probability and statistics named after Thomas Bayes (c. 1702–61), in particular methods related to statistical inference:
Adoption is a process whereby a person assumes the parenting of another, usually a child, from that person's biological or legal parent or parents, and, in so doing, permanently transfers all rights and responsibilities, along with filiation, from the biological parent or parents.
Synchronous Optical Networking (SONET) and Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH) are standardized protocols that transfer multiple digital bit streams synchronously over optical fiber using lasers or highly coherent light from light-emitting diodes (LEDs). At low transmission rates data can also be transferred via an electrical interface.
Yorkshire pudding is an English food made from batter consisting of eggs, flour, and milk or water. It is often served with beef and gravy and is part of the traditional Sunday roast.
Reality television is a genre of television programming that documents supposedly unscripted real-life situations, and often features an otherwise unknown cast of individuals who are typically not professional actors, although in some shows celebrities may participate. It differs from documentary television in that the focus tends to be on drama, personal conflict, and entertainment rather than educating viewers.
In electronics, a multiplexer (or mux) is a device that selects one of several analog or digital input signals and forwards the selected input into a single line. A multiplexer of 2n inputs has ⌈n⌉ select lines, which are used to select which input line to send to the output.
&quot;The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas&quot; is a 1973 plotless, short, descriptive work of philosophical fiction, though popularly classified as a short story, by American writer Ursula K. Le Guin.
Nutmeg refers to the seed or ground spice of several species of the Myristica genus. Myristica fragrans (fragrant nutmeg or true nutmeg) is a dark-leaved, evergreen tree cultivated for two spices derived from its fruit, nutmeg and mace.
== Events ==
This is a list of Swedish monarchs, that is, the Kings and ruling Queens of Sweden, including regents and viceroys of the Kalmar Union, up to the present time.
Outpatient commitment (more commonly known as Assisted Outpatient Treatment (AOT)) refers to state mental health laws that create civil court procedure wherein a judge orders a person with severe mental illness to adhere to an outpatient treatment plan designed to prevent relapse and dangerous deterioration.  Assisted Outpatient Commitment allows the assisted involuntary treatment of individuals diagnosed with severe mental disorders who are living in the community and experiencing a  mental illness crisis that requires intervention to prevent further deterioration that is harmful to themselves or others, rather than detained in hospital or incarcerated.
}}
An inverse multiplexer (often abbreviated to inverse MUX or IMUX) allows a data stream to be broken into multiple lower data rate communication links.  An inverse multiplexer differs from a demultiplexer because the multiple output streams from the former stay inter-related, whereas those from the latter are unrelated.
Konoe (written: 近衛) is a Japanese surname. It is sometimes spelled &quot;Konoye&quot; based on historical kana usage.
Year 1155 (MCLV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1192 (MCXCII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1158 (MCLVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Gravity, or gravitation, is a natural phenomenon by which all things with mass are brought toward (or gravitate toward) one another, including planets, stars and galaxies, and other physical objects.  Since energy and mass are equivalent, all forms of energy (including light) cause gravitation and are under the influence of it.
Since the earliest days of Esperanto, the colour green has been used as a symbol of mutual recognition, and it appears prominently in all Esperanto symbols.
Charles IX may refer to:
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1581 (MDLXXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar, and a common year starting on Thursday (link will display full calendar) of the Proleptic Gregorian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1579 (MDLXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar, and a common year starting on Monday of the Proleptic Gregorian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1576 (MDLXXVI)  was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1569 (MDLXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
thumb|250px|Æsir gathered around the body of [[Baldr. Painting by Christoffer Wilhelm Eckersberg 1817]]
== Events ==
== Events ==
}}
}}
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
In the Swedish calendar it began as a leap year starting on Monday and remained so until Thursday, February 29. By adding a second leap day (Friday, February 30) Sweden reverted to the Julian calendar and the rest of the year (from Saturday, March 1) was in sync with the Julian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a leap year starting on Wednesday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Friday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Monday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Sunday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Wednesday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a leap year starting on Friday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
In the Swedish calendar it was a common year starting on Tuesday, one day ahead of the Julian and ten days behind the Gregorian calendar.
As of March 1 (O.S.
The first year of the ascending Dvapara Yuga.
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
== Events ==
Year 1563 (MDLXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1559 (MDLIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1553 (MDLIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1551 (MDLI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1547 (MDXLVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1545 (MDXLV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
yellow, orange, and blue colors represent the varied Utah landscape.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1532 (MDXXXII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1530 (MDXXX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1527 (MDXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1526 (MDXXVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
In object-oriented programming and software engineering, the visitor design pattern is a way of separating an algorithm from an object structure on which it operates. A practical result of this separation is the ability to add new operations to existent object structures without modifying the structures.
__NOTOC__
Year 1517 (MDXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1513 (MDXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1511 (MDXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1510 (MDX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1502 (MDII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1501 (MDI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
}}
Year 1250 (MCCL) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1251 (MCCLI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
)
The world is the planet Earth and all life upon it, including human civilization.Merriam-webster.
Sigismund of Bavaria (26 July 1439 – 1 February 1501) was a member of the Wittelsbach dynasty. He ruled as Duke of Bavaria-Munich from 1460 to 1467, and then as Duke of Bavaria-Dachau until his death.
Bofors AB is a Swedish arms manufacturing company. The name has been associated with the iron industry and artillery manufacturing for more than 350 years.
Psychiatric hospitals, also known as mental hospitals, mental asylums or simply asylums, are hospitals or wards specializing in the treatment of serious mental illness, such as clinical depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder. Psychiatric hospitals vary widely in their size and grading.
Year 1027 (MXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1029 (MXXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1024 (MXXIV) was an leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1023 (MXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1022 (MXXII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1021 (MXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1020 (MXX) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The cosmos (, ) is the universe regarded as a complex and orderly system; the opposite of chaos. The philosopher Pythagoras used the term cosmos () for the order of the universe, but the term was not part of modern language until the 19th century geographer and polymath, Alexander von Humboldt, resurrected the use of the word from the ancient Greek, assigned it to his multi-volume treatise, Kosmos, which influenced modern and somewhat holistic perception of the universe as one interacting entity.
U-nmxmn96 may refer to one of the following German submarines:
The Juggler}}
3,547 (as of September 2016) (25) 1,724 (Global Rank) (as of 29th March 2017)
Retroviral integrase (IN) is an enzyme produced by a retrovirus (such as HIV) that enables its genetic material to be integrated into the DNA of the infected cell. Retroviral INs are not to be confused with phage integrases, such as  λ phage integrase (Int) (see site-specific recombination).
(National League, 1876)
A particle in the physical sciences is a small localized object to which can be ascribed physical properties.
based on Ranger Block I
Hunting is the practice of killing or trapping animals, or pursuing or tracking them with the intent of doing so. Hunting wildlife or feral animals is most commonly done by humans for food, recreation, to remove predators that are dangerous to humans or domestic animals, or for trade.
}}
The Big Four are the four largest professional services networks in the world, offering audit, assurance services, taxation, management consulting, advisory, actuarial, corporate finance and legal services. They handle the vast majority of audits for public companies as well as many private companies.
Galanthus (snowdrop; Greek gála &quot;milk&quot;, ánthos &quot;flower&quot;) is a small genus of about 20 species of bulbous perennial herbaceous plants in the family Amaryllidaceae. The plants have two linear leaves and a single small white drooping bell shaped flower with six petal-like (petaloid) tepals in two circles (whorls).
Louis the Roman () (7 May 1328 – 17 May 1365) was the eldest son of Emperor Louis IV the Bavarian by his second wife, Margaret II, Countess of Hainault, and a member of the House of Wittelsbach. Louis was Duke of Bavaria as Louis VI (1347–1365) and Margrave of Brandenburg (1351–1365) as Louis II.
right|thumb|250px|A [[torus, one of the most frequently studied objects in algebraic topology]]
(aged 65)
Compression may refer to:
PGP}}
A coven  usually refers to a gathering of witches. The word &quot;coven&quot; remained largely unused in English until 1921 when Margaret Murray promoted the idea, now much disputed, that all witches across Europe met in groups of thirteen which they called &quot;covens.
Power transmission is the movement of energy from its place of generation to a location where it is applied to perform useful work.
Electric power transmission is the bulk movement of electrical energy from a generating site, such as a power plant, to an electrical substation. The interconnected  lines which facilitate this movement are known as a transmission network.
Wenceslaus}}
Three-phase electric power is a common method of alternating current electric power generation, transmission, and distribution.William D.
CRC may refer to:
===Kamikaze knot===
The clove hitch  is a type of knot. Along with the bowline and the sheet bend, it is often considered one of the most important knots and is commonly referred to as a Double Hitch.
A Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) is an error-detecting code commonly used in digital networks and storage devices to detect accidental changes to raw data.  Blocks of data entering these systems get a short check value attached, based on the remainder of a polynomial division of their contents.
Unpowered aircraft can remain airborne for a significant period of time without onboard propulsion. They can be classified as fixed-wing gliders, lighter-than-air balloons and tethered kites.
The House of Wittelsbach () is a European royal family and a German dynasty from Bavaria.
The Palatinate (, Pfälzer dialect: Palz), historically also Rhenish Palatinate (), is a region in southwestern Germany. It occupies roughly the southernmost quarter of the German federal state of Rhineland-Palatinate (Rheinland-Pfalz), covering an area of  with about 1.
Tantalus (, Tántalos) was a Greek mythological figure, most famous for his eternal punishment in Tartarus.  He was made to stand in a pool of water beneath a fruit tree with low branches, with the fruit ever eluding his grasp, and the water always receding before he could take a drink.
A lever ( or ) is a machine consisting of a beam or rigid rod pivoted at a fixed hinge, or fulcrum. A lever is a rigid body capable of rotating on a point on itself.
Zwinger}}
The Sikorsky MH-60G/HH-60G Pave Hawk is a twin-turboshaft engine helicopter in service with the United States Air Force. It is a derivative of the UH-60 Black Hawk and incorporates the US Air Force PAVE electronic systems program.
right|thumb|120px|Motorola 68010 as DIP
right|thumb|Several greyhounds before a race.
Bessarabia (; , Bessarabiya; ; , Bessarabiya;  Besarabiya) is a historical region in Eastern Europe, bounded by the Dniester river on the east and the Prut river on the west. Today Bessarabia is mostly (approx.
Raoult's law ( law) is a law of thermodynamics established by French chemist François-Marie Raoult in 1887.F.
Raphael was the Italian Renaissance painter Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino.
border
The data values of standard electrode potentials are given in the table below, in volts relative to the standard hydrogen electrode, and are for the following conditions:
Panettone (pronounced ;&quot;Panettone&quot; in the American Heritage Dictionary&quot;Panettone&quot; in the Oxford English Dictionary&quot;Panettone&quot; in Merriam–Webster ) is an Italian type of sweet bread loaf originally from Milan (in Milanese dialect of the Lombard language it is called paneton /paneˈtuŋ/),Cherubini, Francesco (1841) Vocabolario milanese-italiano, Vol. 3, p.
* Mary of Hungary
Natural science is a branch of science concerned with the description, prediction, and understanding of natural phenomena, based on observational and empirical evidence. Mechanisms such as peer review and repeatability of findings are used to try to ensure the validity of scientific advances.
}}
Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) is a standardized exterior gateway protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information among autonomous systems (AS) on the Internet.Orbit-Computer-Solutions.
Abolitionism is a movement to end slavery, whether formal or informal. In Western Europe and the Americas, abolitionism is a historical movement to end the African and Indian slave trade and set slaves free.
La Ruffiana is an older female character of the Commedia dell'Arte with a shady past or who used to be a prostitute. She is used most often in relationship to the vecchi of which group she is a nominal member.
alt=Zanni, Harlequin and Lucretia.jpg|thumb|
Slapstick is a style of humor involving exaggerated physical activity which exceeds the boundaries of normal physical comedy. The term arises from a device developed during the broad, physical comedy style known as Commedia dell'arte in 16th Century Italy.
The Mattachine Society, founded in 1950, was one of the earliest homophile (gay rights) organizations in the United States, probably second only to Chicago's Society for Human Rights. Harry Hay and a group of Los Angeles male friends formed the group to protect and improve the rights of gay men.
In the performing arts, a scenario (, ; from Italian: that which is pinned to the scenery;myetymology Scenario, scenery, σκηνή pronounced ) is a synoptical collage of an event or series of actions and events. In the Commedia dell'arte it was an outline of entrances, exits, and action describing the plot of a play, and was literally pinned to the back of the scenery.
Lazzi (; from the Italian lazzo, a joke or witticism) are stock comedic routines that are traditionally associated with Commedia dell'arte. Performers, especially those playing the masked Arlecchino, had many of these &quot;bits&quot; in their repertoire, and would use improvisatory skills to weave them into the plot of dozens of different commedia scenarios.
Proserpina (;  ) or Proserpine () is an ancient Roman goddess whose cult, myths and mysteries were based on those of Greek Persephone and her mother Demeter, the Greek goddess of grain and agriculture. The Romans identified Proserpina with their native fertility goddess Libera, daughter of the grain and agriculture goddess Ceres and wife to Liber.
Nijō can refer to:
Year 1165 (MCLXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
literally means sixth street in Japanese. It can refer to:
Year 1176 (MCLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Takakura may refer to:
Year 1161 (MCLXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1181 (MCLXXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Kronborg is a castle and stronghold in the town of Helsingør, Denmark. Immortalized as Elsinore in William Shakespeare's play Hamlet, Kronborg is one of the most important Renaissance castles in Northern Europe and has been added to UNESCO's World Heritage Sites list (2000).
()
Montanism, known by its adherents as the New Prophecy, was an early Christian movement of the late 2nd century, later referred to by the name of its  founder, Montanus. The movement held the basic tenets of Christian doctrine of the wider Church, although believing in new revelations and ecstasies, unapproved by the wider Church; the Bishop of Rome ultimately condemned the movement as heretical and excommunicated its adherents.
The term &quot;Yankee&quot; and its contracted form &quot;Yank&quot; have several interrelated meanings, all referring to people from the United States. Its various senses depend on the scope of context.
The banana is an edible fruit – botanically a berry – produced by several kinds of large herbaceous flowering plants in the genus Musa. In some countries, bananas used for cooking may be called plantains, in contrast to dessert bananas.
The Wedding Party}}
Cooking bananas are banana cultivars in the genus Musa whose fruits are generally used in cooking. They may be eaten while ripe or unripe and are generally starchy.
A winter sport or winter activity is a recreational activity or sport which is played on snow or ice. Most such sports are variations of skiing, ice skating and sledding.
thumb|[[Wheelchair ramp, Hotel Montescot, Chartres, France]]
Snowboarding is a recreational activity and Olympic and Paralympic sport that involves descending a snow-covered slope while standing on a snowboard attached to a rider's feet.
Cary Grant (born Archibald Alec Leach; January 18, 1904 – November 29, 1986) was a British-American actor, known as one of classic Hollywood's definitive leading men. He began a career in Hollywood in the early 1930s, and became known for his transatlantic accent, debonair demeanor, and light-hearted approach to acting and sense of comic timing.
A Chinatown () is an ethnic enclave of Chinese or Han people located outside mainland China or Taiwan, most often in an urban setting. Areas known as &quot;Chinatown&quot; exist throughout the world, including Asia, Australia, the Americas, Africa and Europe.
A skateboarding trick, or simply a trick, is a maneuver performed on a skateboard while skateboarding. Skateboarding tricks may vary greatly in difficulty.
The photosphere is a star's outer shell from which light is radiated. The term itself is derived from Ancient Greek roots, φῶς, φωτός/phos, photos meaning &quot;light&quot; and σφαῖρα/sphaira meaning &quot;sphere&quot;, in reference to the fact that it is a spherical surface that is perceived to emit light.
}}
Water skiing is a surface water sport in which an individual is pulled behind a boat or a cable ski installation over a body of water, skimming the surface on two skis or one ski. The sport requires sufficient area on a smooth stretch of water, one or two skis, a tow boat with tow rope, three people (depending on state boating laws), and a personal flotation device.
In cosmology, the cosmological constant (usually denoted by the Greek capital letter lambda: Λ) is the value
In physics, optical depth or optical thickness, is the natural logarithm of the ratio of incident to transmitted radiant power through a material, and spectral optical depth or spectral optical thickness is the natural logarithm of the ratio of incident to transmitted spectral radiant power through a material. Optical depth is dimensionless, and in particular is not a length, though it is a monotonically increasing function of path length, and approaches zero as the path length approaches zero.
Pepper or peppers may refer to:
Vulcanization or vulcanisation is a chemical process for converting natural rubber or related polymers into more durable materials by the addition of sulfurSulfur Vulcanization of Natural Rubber for Benzothiazole Accelerated Formulations: From Reaction Mechanisms to a Rational Kinetic Model or other equivalent curatives or accelerators. These additives modify the polymer by forming cross-links (bridges) between individual polymer chains.
Bolesław I the Brave ( , ; 967 – 17 June 1025), less often known as Bolesław I the Great (), was Duke of Poland from 992 to 1025, and the first King of Poland in 1025. As Boleslav IV, he was also Duke of Bohemia between 1002 and 1003.
Antenna (pl. antennas or antennae) may refer to:
A wall is a structure that defines an area, carries a load, or  provides shelter or security.  There are many kinds of walls:
Labial consonants are consonants in which one or both lips are the active articulator. The two common labial articulations are bilabials, articulated using both lips, and labiodentals, articulated with the lower lip against the upper teeth, both of which are present in English.
Coronal consonants are consonants articulated with the flexible front part of the tongue. Only the coronal consonants can be divided into apical (using the tip of the tongue), laminal (using the blade of the tongue), domed (with the tongue bunched up), or subapical (using the underside of the tongue) as well as a few rarer orientations, such as postalveolar, as only the front of the tongue has such dexterity.
Henry IV}}
border
The Rolls-Royce Merlin is a British liquid-cooled V-12 piston aero engine of 27-litres (1,650 cu in) capacity. Rolls-Royce designed the engine and first ran it in 1933 as a private venture.
The Air Ministry was a department of the Government of the United Kingdom with the responsibility of managing the affairs of the Royal Air Force, that existed from 1918 to 1964.  It was under the political authority of the Secretary of State for Air.
thumb|right|Nuclear reactors line the riverbank at the Hanford Site along the [[Columbia River in January 1960. The N Reactor is in the foreground, with the twin KE and KW Reactors in the immediate background.
In all bilaterian animals, the mesoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early embryo. The other two layers are the ectoderm (outside layer) and endoderm (inside layer), with the mesoderm as the middle layer between them.
The Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (LASP) is a research organization at the University of Colorado Boulder. LASP is a research institute with over one hundred research scientists ranging in fields from solar influences, to Earth's and other planetary atmospherics processes, space weather, space plasma and dusty plasma physics.
St, St., or Saint Anselm usually refers to the Anselm who was archbishop of Canterbury in the 11th and 12th centuries.
A straw man is a common form of argument and is an informal fallacy based on giving the impression of refuting an opponent's argument, while refuting an argument that was not presented by that opponent. One who engages in this fallacy is said to be &quot;attacking a straw man&quot;.
Selectmen
Argumentum ad baculum  (Latin for &quot;argument to the cudgel&quot; or &quot;appeal to the stick&quot;) is the fallacy committed when one appeals to force or the threat of force to bring about the acceptance of a conclusion.http://philosophy.
*
Religion is a collection of cultural systems, beliefs and world views that establishes symbols that relate humanity to spirituality and, sometimes to moral values. While religion is hard to define, one standard model of religion, used in religious studies courses, was proposed by Clifford Geertz, who simply called it a &quot;cultural system.
}}
The Stoned Guest is a &quot;half-act opera&quot; by Peter Schickele in the satirical persona of P. D.
Black tie, occasionally known in the English-speaking world by its French name cravate noire, is a dress code for evening events and social functions derived from British and American costume conventions of the 19th century.  Traditionally worn only for events after 7 p.
Richard Somers (September 15, 1778 – September 4, 1804) was an officer of the United States Navy, killed during a daring assault on Tripoli.
USS Somers may refer to:
In metaphysics, extension signifies both 'stretching out' (Latin: extensio) as well as later 'taking up space', and most recently, spreading one's internal mental cognition into the external world.
In any of several studies that treat the use of signs—for example, in linguistics, logic, mathematics, semantics, and semiotics—the extension of a concept, idea, or sign consists of the things to which it applies, in contrast with its comprehension or intension, which consists very roughly of the ideas, properties, or corresponding signs that are implied or suggested by the concept in question.
A physical law or scientific law is a theoretical statement &quot;inferred from particular facts, applicable to a defined group or class of phenomena, and expressible by the statement that a particular phenomenon always occurs if certain conditions be present.&quot;  Physical laws are typically conclusions based on repeated scientific experiments and observations over many years and which have become accepted universally within the scientific community.
Chinese food therapy (, also called nutrition therapy and dietary therapy) is a mode of dieting rooted in Chinese beliefs concerning the effects of food on the human organism, and centered on concepts such as eating in moderation. Its basic precepts are a mix of folk views and concepts drawn from traditional Chinese medicine.
The Boehm system is a system of keywork for the flute, created by inventor and flautist Theobald Boehm between 1831 and 1847.
The term road bicycle is used to describe bicycles built for traveling at speed on paved roads.  Some sources use the term to mean racing bicycle.
The Tesla coil is an electrical resonant transformer circuit designed by inventor Nikola Tesla in 1891.U.
Aloysius Lilius (c. 1510 – 1576), also variously referred to as Luigi Lilio, Luigi Giglio, was an Italian doctor, astronomer, philosopher and chronologist, and also the &quot;primary author&quot; who provided the proposal that (after modifications) became the basis of the Gregorian Calendar reform of 1582.
(as The Daily Universal Register)
OS/390 is an IBM operating system for the System/390 IBM mainframe computers.
In ancient Roman religion and myth, Faunus  was the horned god of the forest, plains and fields; when he made cattle fertile he was called Inuus. He came to be equated in literature with the Greek god Pan.
Pearl Harbour is a small harbour at the head of the Waiau River, in the town of Manapouri on the South Island of New Zealand.
The accelerating expansion of the universe is the observation that the universe appears to be expanding at an increasing rate, so that the velocity at which a distant galaxy is receding from the observer is continuously increasing with time.
In physics, quintessence is a hypothetical form of dark energy, more precisely a scalar field, postulated  as an explanation of the observation  of an accelerating rate of expansion of the universe, rather than due to a true cosmological constant. The first example of this scenario was proposed by Ratra and Peebles (1988).
Dyson's eternal intelligence concept (the Dyson Scenario) states that intelligent beings would be able to think an infinite number of thoughts in an open universe.
The Abduction of Figaro is a comic opera, described as &quot;A Simply Grand Opera by P. D.
A finite difference is a mathematical expression of the form . If a finite difference is divided by , one gets a difference quotient.
In computing, Microsoft's ActiveX Data Objects (ADO) comprises a set of Component Object Model (COM) objects for accessing data sources. A part of MDAC (Microsoft Data Access Components), it provides a middleware layer between programming languages and OLE DB (a means of accessing data stores, whether  databases or not, in a uniform manner).
Superior may refer to:
A mace is a blunt weapon, a type of club or virge that uses a heavy head on the end of a handle to deliver powerful blows. A mace typically consists of a strong, heavy, wooden or metal shaft, often reinforced with metal, featuring a head made of stone, copper, bronze, iron, or steel.
Flash or flashes may refer to:
Clustering can refer to the following:
Hartford is the state capital of Connecticut in the USA and the largest city named &quot;Hartford&quot;.
Cuneiform (from the Latin word for &quot;wedge-shaped&quot;) can refer to:
.
}}
Racquetball is a racquet sport played with a hollow rubber ball in an indoor or outdoor court. Joseph Sobek
Leisure Suit Larry is an adult-themed video game series created by Al Lowe. It was published by Sierra from 1987 to 2009, then by Codemasters from 2009.
Windows (through an IFS), macOS (through an IFS)
Windows (through an IFS)
A corporate haven is a jurisdiction with laws friendly to corporations
– Spanish–American War
from Bennington, Vermont
A business (also known as an enterprise, a company or a firm) is an organizational entity and legal entity made up of an association of people, be they natural, legal, or a mixture of both who share a common purpose and unite in order to focus their various talents and organize their collectively available skills or resources to achieve specific declared goals and are involved in the provision of goods and services to consumers.Compare:
Albury–Wodonga is the broad settlement incorporating the twin Australian cities of Albury and Wodonga, which are separated geographically by the Murray River and politically by a state border: Albury on the north of the river is part of New South Wales while Wodonga on the south bank is in Victoria.
Moog is a surname. People bearing the name include:
Bangers and mash, also known as sausages and mash, is a traditional dish of the British Isles made of sausages and mashed potatoes, and may consist of one of a variety of flavoured sausages made of pork, lamb, or beef, or a Cumberland sausage. The dish is sometimes served with onion gravy, fried onions, or peas.
Ballsbridge or Ball's Bridge () is an affluent neighbourhood of the city of Dublin, capital of the Republic of Ireland. The neighbourhood is situated around and to the north and west of a three-arch stone bridge built in 1791, which spans the River Dodder on the south side of the city.
Intermediate System to Intermediate System  (IS-IS) is a routing protocol designed to move information efficiently within a computer network, a group of physically connected computers or similar devices.
,  or  is a part of the Japanese myth cycle and also a major deity of the Shinto religion. She is seen as the goddess of the sun, but also of the universe.
The thermodynamic free energy is the amount of work that a thermodynamic system can perform. The concept is useful in the thermodynamics of chemical or thermal processes in engineering and science.
The standard circulating coinage of the United Kingdom is denominated in pounds sterling (symbol &quot;£&quot;), and, since the introduction of the two-pound coin in 1994 (to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the Bank of England 1694–1994), ranges in value from one penny to two pounds. Since decimalisation, on 15 February 1971, the pound has been divided into 100 (new) pence.
Melvin Kranzberg (November 22, 1917 – December 6, 1995) was a professor of history at Case Western Reserve University from 1952 until 1971. He was a Callaway professor of the history of technology at Georgia Tech from 1972 to 1988.
Open systems are computer systems that provide some combination of interoperability, portability, and open software standards. (It can also refer to specific installations that are configured to allow unrestricted access by people and/or other computers; this article does not discuss that meaning).
Charles Pierce (July 14, 1926 – May 31, 1999) was one of the 20th century's foremost female impersonators, particularly noted for his impersonation of Bette Davis.
MFT may refer to:
}}
Medusa is one of the three Gorgons in Greek mythology.
A name server is a computer hardware or software server that implements a network service for providing responses to queries against a directory service. It translates an often humanly meaningful, text-based identifier to a system-internal, often numeric identification or addressing component.
In Greek mythology, Medea (; , Mēdeia, ) was the daughter of King Aeëtes of Colchis,Colchis was an ancient Georgian Kingdom niece of Circe, granddaughter of the sun god Helios, and later wife to the hero Jason. In Euripides' play Medea, Jason abandons Medea when Creon, king of Corinth, offers his daughter Glauce.
Icarus is a character in Greek mythology.
In category theory, a branch of mathematics, the abstract notion of a limit captures the essential properties of universal constructions such as products, pullbacks and inverse limits.  The dual notion of a colimit generalizes constructions such as disjoint unions, direct sums, coproducts, pushouts and direct limits.
SVS may refer to:
USS Mustin may refer to:
A playwright, also known as a dramatist, is a person who writes plays.
National conservatismConservative liberalismAgrarianismCentrism
}}
UW, Uw, or uw may refer to:
Armenia| Azerbaijan| Georgia |  Iran|  Russia| Turkey}}
The Quirinal Hill (; ;  ) is one of the Seven Hills of Rome, at the north-east of the city center. It is the location of the official residence of the Italian head of state, who resides in the Quirinal Palace; by metonymy &quot;the Quirinal&quot; has come to stand for the Italian president.
Stephen Langton (c. 1150 – 9 July 1228) was an English Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church and Archbishop of Canterbury between 1207 and his death in 1228.
Design by contract (DbC), also known as contract programming, programming by contract and design-by-contract programming, is an approach for designing software. It prescribes that software designers should define formal, precise and verifiable interface specifications for software components, which extend the ordinary definition of abstract data types with preconditions, postconditions and invariants.
In computer programming, a precondition is a condition or predicate that must always be true just prior to the execution of some section of code or before an operation in a formal specification.
In computer programming, a postcondition is a condition or predicate that must always be true just after the execution of some section of code or after an operation in a formal specification. Postconditions are sometimes tested using assertions within the code itself.
PlayStation
}}
The Communications Decency Act of 1996 (CDA) was the first notable attempt by the United States Congress to regulate pornographic material on the Internet.  In 1997, in the landmark cyberlaw case of Reno v.
Hide-and-seek (or hide-and-go-seek)  is a popular children's game in which any number of players (ideally at least three) conceal themselves in the environment, to be found by one or more seekers. The game is played by one player chosen (designated as being &quot;it&quot;) closing their eyes and counting to a predetermined number while the other players hide.
thumb|right|300px|Anonymous Venetian Orientalist painting, The Reception of the Ambassadors in Damascus, 1511, the [[Louvre. The deer with antlers in the foreground is not known ever to have existed in the wild in Syria.
Crack frequently refers to:
The Manifesto of the Italian Fasci of Combat (), commonly known as the Fascist Manifesto, was the initial declaration of the political stance of the Fasci Italiani di Combattimento (&quot;Italian League of Combat&quot;) the movement founded in Milan by Benito Mussolini in 1919 and an early exponent of Fascism. The Manifesto was authored by national syndicalist Alceste De Ambris and Futurist movement leader Filippo Tommaso Marinetti.
A compass is an instrument used for navigation and orientation that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal directions (or points). Usually, a diagram called a compass rose shows the directions north, south, east, and west on the compass face as abbreviated initials.
In geometry, two figures or objects are congruent if they have the same shape and size, or if one has the same shape and size as the mirror image of the other.
Stigma|stigmata (disambiguation)}}
Hubert Languet (1518 – 30 September 1581 in Antwerp) was a French diplomat and reformer. The leading idea of his diplomacy was that of religious and civil liberty for the protection and expansion of Protestantism.
An injunction is an equitable remedy in the form of a court order that compels a party to do or refrain from specific acts. A party that fails to comply with an injunction faces criminal or civil penalties, including possible monetary sanctions and even imprisonment.
Franchise most commonly refers to:
Compact as used in politics may refer broadly to a pact or treaty; in more specific cases it may refer to:
PSPACE} }} ?}}
thumb|KSD-64 &quot;Crypto-ignition keys&quot; on display at the [[National Cryptologic Museum in 2005]]
thumb|330px|The audience at the [[Théâtre des Bouffes-Parisiens, the birthplace of Jacques Offenbach's operettas (1860)]]
Tequila () is a regionally specific distilled beverage made from the blue agave plant, primarily in the area surrounding the city of Tequila,  northwest of Guadalajara, and in the highlands (Los Altos) of the central western Mexican state of Jalisco. Aside from differences in region of origin, tequila is a type of mezcal (and the regions of production of the two drinks are overlapping).
In topology, an open set is an abstract concept generalizing the idea of an open interval in the real line. The simplest example is in metric spaces, where open sets can be defined as those sets which contain an open ball around each of their points (or, equivalently, a set is open if it doesn't contain any of its boundary points); however, an open set, in general, can be very abstract: any collection of sets can be called open, as long as the union of an arbitrary number of open sets is open, the intersection of a finite number of open sets is open, and the space itself is open.
thumb|Two disjoint sets.
Good-Bye to All That, an autobiography by Robert Graves, first appeared in 1929, when the author was 34 years old. &quot;It was my bitter leave-taking of England,&quot; he wrote in a prologue to the revised second edition of 1957, &quot;where I had recently broken a good many conventions&quot;.
Frederick II of Brandenburg () (19 November 1413 – 10 February 1471), nicknamed &quot;the Iron&quot; (der Eiserne) and sometimes &quot;Irontooth&quot; (Eisenzahn), was a Prince-elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg from 1440 until his abdication in 1470, and was a member of the House of Hohenzollern.
In the mathematical theory of tessellations, a prototile is one of the shapes of a tile in a tessellation..
thumb|[[Orlan space suit, worn by astronaut Michael Fincke outside the International Space Station]]
thumbnail|A [[white gold wedding ring and a single-diamond, gold-banded engagement ring.]]
thumb|300px|Figures shown in the same color are similar
Distance is a numerical description of how far apart objects are.  In physics or everyday usage, distance may refer to a physical length, or an estimation based on other criteria (e.
thumb|right|250px|A set T of real numbers (red and green balls), a subset S of T (green balls), and the infimum of S. Note that for finite, totally ordered  sets the infimum and the [[minimum are equal.
Lando}}
An engagement, betrothal, or fiancer is a promise to wed, and also the period of time between a marriage proposal and a marriage. During this period, a couple is said to be betrothed, intended, affianced, engaged to be married, or simply engaged.
Manufacturing is the production of merchandise for use or sale using labour and machines, tools, chemical and biological processing, or formulation. The term may refer to a range of human activity, from handicraft to high tech, but is most commonly applied to industrial production, in which raw materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale.
A pine is any conifer in the genus Pinus, ,Sunset Western Garden Book, 1995:606–607 of the family Pinaceae. Pinus is the sole genus in the subfamily Pinoideae.
Center or centre may refer to:
thumb|[[Epicurus]]
thumb|Robert Estienne, from a [[book frontispiece]]
Henri Estienne (; 1528 or 1531 – 1598), also known as Henricus Stephanus, was a 16th-century French printer and classical scholar. He was the eldest son of  Robert Estienne.
In probability theory, the central limit theorem (CLT) establishes that, in most situations, when independent random variables are added, their properly normalized sum tends toward a normal distribution (a bell curve) even if the original variables themselves are not normally distributed.  The theorem is a key concept in probability theory because it implies that probabilistic and statistical methods that work for normal distributions can be applicable to many problems involving other types of distributions.
In particle physics, the Dirac equation is a relativistic wave equation derived by British physicist Paul Dirac in 1928. In its free form, or including electromagnetic interactions, it describes all spin- massive particles such as electrons and quarks for which parity is a symmetry.
XYY syndrome, also known as YY syndrome or Jacobs syndrome,47,XYY syndrome on Genetics Home Reference, Other Names, retrieved 6 August 2017 is a genetic condition in which a human male has an extra male (Y) chromosome, giving a total of 47 chromosomes instead of the more usual 46. This produces a 47,XYY karyotype, which occurs every 1 in 1,000 male births.
The spoiler effect is the effect of vote splitting between candidates or ballot questions with similar ideologies.  One spoiler candidate's presence in the election draws votes from a major candidate with similar politics thereby causing a strong opponent of both or several to win.
-&lt;BR&gt;-
Moore's law is the observation that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles approximately every two years. The observation is named after Gordon Moore, the co-founder of Fairchild Semiconductor and Intel, whose 1965 paper described a doubling every year in the number of components per integrated circuit, |name=orig_paper}} and projected this rate of growth would continue for at least another decade.
thumb|right|Right triangle
thumb|right|300px|Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse – Death, Famine, War, and Conquest, an 1887 painting by [[Viktor Vasnetsov. The Lamb is visible at the top.
Anahuac, 1.5 miles above sea level between 19° and 20° north latitude and 98°45’ to 99°20’ west longitude, is the ancient core of Mexico.
}}
Microware was a US based in Clive, Iowa corporation that produced the OS-9 real-time operating system.
Jefferies tubes, in the Star Trek fictional universe, are narrow tunnels or [inside a starship]. They can be [[vertical direction|vertically or horizontally oriented, and form a network that allows travel throughout large volumes of a starship even when the turbolifts are not functioning.
Alabama became a state of the United States of America on December 14, 1819. After, the Indian wars and removals of the early 19th century forced most Native Americans out of the state, white settlers arrived in large numbers, bringing or importing African slaves in the domestic trade.
Andorra, officially the Principality of Andorra (), also called the Principality of the Valleys of AndorraFunk and Wagnalls Encyclopedia##, 1993 (), is a sovereign landlocked microstate in Southwestern Europe, located in the eastern Pyrenees mountains and bordered by Spain and France.
The history of Austria covers the history of Austria and its predecessor states, from the early Stone Age to the present state. The name Ostarrîchi (Austria) has been in use since 996 AD when it was a margravate of the Duchy of Bavaria and from 1156 an independent duchy (later archduchy) of the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation (Heiliges Römisches Reich 962–1806).
Political identity came to the territory now occupied by the Principality of Liechtenstein in 814, with the formation of the subcountry of Lower Rhætia.  Liechtenstein's borders have remained unchanged since 1434, when the Rhine established the border between the Holy Roman Empire and the Swiss cantons.
Year 1499 (MCDXCIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1497 (MCDXCVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1496 (MCDXCVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1494 (MCDXCIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
Year 1491 (MCDXCI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1490 (MCDXC) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 1489 (MCDLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1486 (MCDLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
Year 1485 (MCDLXXXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1484 (MCDLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1482 (MCDLXXXII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1479 (MCDLXXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar).
Year 1475 (MCDLXXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1474 (MCDLXXIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1472 (MCDLXXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1470 (MCDLXX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1468 (MCDLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1467 (MCDLXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1466 (MCDLXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1464 (MCDLXIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1463 (MCDLXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1460 (MCDLX) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1456 (MCDLVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1455 (MCDLV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1452 (MCDLII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1450 (MCDL) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1349 (MCCCIL) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1347 (MCCCXLVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1344 (MCCCXLIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1343 (MCCCXLIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1342 (MCCCXLII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1340 (MCCCXL) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1350 (MCCCL) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1352 (MCCCLII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1353 (MCCCLIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1354 (MCCCLIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1355 (MCCCLV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1356 (MCCCLVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1357 (MCCCLVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1358 (MCCCLVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1361 (MCCCLXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1362 (MCCCLXII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1363 (MCCCLXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
5.0 pp
Year 1366 (MCCCLXVI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
3.1 pp
Year 1367 (MCCCLXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1368 (MCCCLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1369 (MCCCLXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1370 (MCCCLXX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1372 (MCCCLXXII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1373 (MCCCLXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1375 (MCCCLXXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1376 (MCCCLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1377 (MCCCLXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1378 (MCCCLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1379 (MCCCLXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1381 (MCCCLXXXI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1383 (MCCCLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1384 (MCCCLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1385 (MCCCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1386 (MCCCLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1387 (MCCCLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1392 (MCCCXCII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1391 (MCCCXCI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1390 (MCCCXC) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1395 (MCCCXCV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1396 (MCCCXCVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1397 (MCCCXCVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1399 (MCCCXCIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1401 (MCDI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1404 (MCDIV) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1406 (MCDVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1407 (MCDVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1408 (MCDVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1409 (MCDIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Geochemistry is the science that uses the tools and principles of chemistry to explain the mechanisms behind major geological systems such as the Earth's crust and its oceans.  The realm of geochemistry extends beyond the Earth, encompassing the entire Solar System and has made important contributions to the understanding of a number of processes including mantle convection, the formation of planets and the origins of granite and basalt.
A noble savage is a literary stock character who embodies the concept of the indigene, outsider, wild human, or &quot;other&quot; who has not been &quot;corrupted&quot; by civilization, and therefore symbolizes humanity's innate goodness. In English, the phrase first appeared in the 17th century in John Dryden's heroic play The Conquest of Granada (1672), wherein it was used in reference to newly created man.
English Renaissance theatre, also known as early modern English theatre, or (commonly) as Elizabethan theatre, refers to the theatre of England between 1562 and 1642.
Angola is a country in southwestern Africa. The country's name derives from the Kimbundu word for king.
The history of Anguilla runs from the beginning of human habitation, probably via settlement from South America, through its colonization by the English in the early modern period, to the present day. Following a series of rebellions and a short-lived period as an independent republic during the 1960s, Anguilla has been a separate British overseas territory since 1980.
Tone is the use of pitch in language to distinguish lexical or grammatical meaning – that is, to distinguish or to inflect words.  All verbal languages use pitch to express emotional and other paralinguistic information and to convey emphasis, contrast, and other such features in what is called intonation, but not all languages use tones to distinguish words or their inflections, analogously to consonants and vowels.
The history of Antigua and Barbuda can be separated into three distinct eras.  In the first, the islands were inhabited by three successive Amerindian societies.
Alpine skiing, or downhill skiing, is the sport or recreation of sliding down snow-covered hills on skis with fixed-heel bindings. It is characterized by the requirement for mechanical assistance getting to the top of the hill, since the equipment does not allow efficient walking or hiking, unlike cross-country skis which use free-heel bindings.
thumb|right|[[2011 World Figure Skating Championships|2011 World champion ice dancers Meryl Davis / Charlie White perform a dance lift. Dance lifts differ in many ways from pairs lifts.
The history of Australia refers to the history of the area and people of the Commonwealth of Australia and its preceding Indigenous and colonial societies. Aboriginal Australians are believed to have first arrived on the Australian mainland by sea from Maritime Southeast Asia between 40,000 and 70,000 years ago.
The human leg, in the general meaning, is the entire lower limb of the human body, including the foot, thigh and even the hip or gluteal region. However, the definition in human anatomy refers only to the section of the lower limb extending from the knee to the ankle, also known as the crus.
Iberia is a peninsula in southwestern Europe.
*
}}
Roma may refer to:
George Hamilton-Gordon may refer to:
CBE may refer to:
Greek Street
The British honours system is a means of rewarding individuals' personal bravery, achievement, or service to the United Kingdom and the British Overseas Territories. The system consists of three types of award: honours, decorations and medals:
Electroporation, or electropermeabilization, is a microbiology technique in which an electrical field is applied to cells in order to increase the permeability of the cell membrane, allowing chemicals, drugs, or DNA to be introduced into the cell. In microbiology, the process of electroporation is often used to transform bacteria, yeast, or plant protoplasts by introducing new coding DNA.
Karim Khan Citadel, Shiraz
Syrah  is a dark-skinned grape variety grown throughout the world and used primarily to produce red wine. In 1999, Syrah was found to be the offspring of two obscure grapes from southeastern France, Dureza and Mondeuse Blanche.
Symbiosis (from Greek συμβίωσις &quot;living together&quot;, from σύν &quot;together&quot; and βίωσις &quot;living&quot;), ,  is any type of a close and long-term biological interaction between two different biological organisms, be it mutualistic, commensalistic, or parasitic. The organisms may be of the same or of different species.
Cymbeline , also known as Cymbeline, King of Britain, is a play by William Shakespeare, set in Ancient Britain and based on legends that formed part of the Matter of Britain concerning the early Celtic British King Cunobeline. Although listed as a tragedy in the First Folio, modern critics often classify Cymbeline as a romance or even a comedy.
The late romances, often simply called the romances, are a grouping of William Shakespeare's last plays, comprising Pericles, Prince of Tyre; Cymbeline; The Winter's Tale; and The Tempest. The Two Noble Kinsmen, of which Shakespeare was co-author, is sometimes also included in the grouping.
Alpine skiing at the 2002 Winter Olympics consisted of ten events held February 10–23 in the United States near Salt Lake City, Utah. The downhill, super-G, and combined events were held at Snowbasin, the giant slaloms at Park City, and the slaloms at adjacent Deer Valley.
The cross-country skiing events at the 2002 Winter Olympics were marred by drug problems.  The winners of three races were disqualified after blood tests showed that three skiers had overly high red blood cell counts indicating the use of darbepoetin, a drug used to treat anemia.
Alexei Yagudin
The Luge competition at the 2002 Winter Olympic Games was held at Utah Olympic Park in Park City. Three events were staged, taking place from February 10 to February 14.
Nordic combined at the 2002 Winter Olympics, consisted of three events held over ten days, from 9 February to 22 February. The ski jumping part took place in Park City, while the cross-country part took place in Soldier Hollow.
At the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah
Ski jumping at the 2002 Winter Olympics, consisted of three events held from 10 February to 13 February, taking place at Park City.
The 2002 Winter Olympic Games Snowboarding competition consisted of men's and women's Halfpipe and Parallel Giant Slalom events. The snowboarding competition took place at Park City, over a five-day period.
Speed skating at the 2002 Winter Olympics was held over fourteen days, from 9 to 23 February. Ten events were contested at the Utah Olympic Oval.
Three bobsleigh events were competed at the 2002 Winter Olympics, at Utah Olympic Park.  The competition took place between February 16 and February 23, 2002.
alt=New England Digital logo|220px|right
Jon Howard Appleton (born January 4, 1939) is an American composer and teacher who was a pioneer in electro-acoustic music. His earliest compositions in the medium, e.
thumb|300px|right|[[SN 1054 remnant (Crab Nebula).]]
thumb|Synclavier I (1977), with HOP box
or
thumb|300 px|Fog sculpture in the sculpture garden of the [[National Gallery of Australia in Canberra.  Artist is Fujiko Nakaya (born 1938 Japan, daughter of Ukichiro Nakaya).
Berengar of Tours (c. 9996 January 1088) was a French 11th century Christian theologian and Archdeacon of Angers, a scholar whose leadership of the cathedral school at Chartres set an example of intellectual inquiry through the revived tools of dialectic that was soon followed at cathedral schools of Laon and Paris,  and who disputed with the Church leadership over the doctrine of transubstantiation in the Eucharist.
A planetary nebula, often abbreviated as PN or plural PNe, is a kind of emission nebula consisting of an expanding, glowing shell of ionized gas ejected from old red giant stars late in their lives. The word &quot;nebula&quot; is Latin for mist or cloud, and the term &quot;planetary nebula&quot; is a misnomer that originated in the 1780s with astronomer William Herschel because when viewed through his telescope, these objects resemble the rounded shapes of planets.
right|thumb|A fragment of the DeCSS code, which can be used by a computer to circumvent a DVD's [[copy protection.]]
thumb|right|Black's Law Dictionary, 7th edition
The Muckleshoot are a Lushootseed-speaking Native American tribe, part of the Coast Salish peoples of the Pacific Northwest. They are descendants of the Duwamish and Puyallup peoples whose traditional territory was located along the Green and White rivers, including up to the headwaters in the foothills of the Cascade Mountains, in present-day Washington State.
Figure skating jumps are an element of three competitive figure skating disciplines — men's singles, ladies' singles, and pair skating but not ice dancing. Different jumps are identified by the take-off edge and the number of revolutions completed.
Spins are an element in figure skating where the skater rotates, centered on a single point on the ice, while holding one or more body positions. The skater rotates on the part of the blade just behind the toe pick, with the weight on the ball of the foot.
ihau
Hawaii Five-0}}
Bobsleigh or bobsled is a winter sport in which teams of two or four teammates make timed runs down narrow, twisting, banked, iced tracks in a gravity-powered sled. The timed runs are combined to calculate the final score.
An oak is a tree or shrub in the genus Quercus (;Sunset Western Garden Book, 1995, Leisure Arts, pp. 606–607, .
, Pavia
In both moral and political philosophy, the social contract or political contract is a theory or model, originating during the Age of Enlightenment, that typically addresses the questions of the origin of society and the legitimacy of the authority of the state over the individual.&quot;For the name social contract (or original contract) often covers two different kinds of contract, and, in tracing the evolution of the theory, it is well to distinguish them.
Speech is the vocal form of human communication.
The Fertile Crescent (also known as the cradle of civilization) is a crescent-shaped region containing the comparatively moist and fertile land of otherwise arid and semi-arid Western Asia,  the Nile Valley and Nile Delta. Having originated in the study of ancient history, the concept soon developed and today retains meanings in international geopolitics and diplomatic relations.
The term &quot;stakeholder&quot;, as traditionally used in the English language in law and notably gambling, is a third party who temporarily holds money or property while its owner is still being determined.
The 1936 Summer Olympics (German: Olympische Sommerspiele 1936), officially known as the Games of the XI Olympiad, was an international multi-sport event that was held in 1936 in Berlin, Germany. Berlin won the bid to host the Games over Barcelona, Spain, on 26 April 1931, at the 29th IOC Session in Barcelona (two years before the Nazis came to power).
Roger Williams (c. 21 December 1603 – between 27 January and 15 March 1683) was a Puritan, an English Reformed theologian, and later a Reformed Baptist who was expelled by the Puritan leaders from the colony of Massachusetts because local officials thought that he was spreading &quot;new and dangerous ideas&quot; to his congregants.
Élie Ducommun (19 February 1833, Geneva – 7 December 1906, Bern) was a peace activist. He is a winner of the 1902 Nobel Peace Prize, which he shared with Charles Albert Gobat.
LCF may refer to:
Binomial nomenclature (also called binominal nomenclature or binary nomenclature) is a formal system of naming species of living things by giving each a name composed of two parts, both of which use Latin grammatical forms, although they can be based on words from other languages. Such a name is called a binomial name (which may be shortened to just &quot;binomial&quot;), a binomen, binominal name or a scientific name; more informally it is also called a Latin name.
Myles Coverdale, first name also spelt Miles (1488 – 20 January 1569), was an English ecclesiastical reformer chiefly known as a Bible translator, preacher and, briefly, Bishop of Exeter (1551-1553). Regarding his probable birth county, Daniell cites John Bale, author of a sixteenth century scriptorium, giving it as Yorkshire.
Kingdom most commonly refers to:
In geometry, confocal means having the same foci: confocal conic sections.
thumb|right|Hamersley Iron [[ALCO Century 628|Alco C628 locomotive at 7 Mile Yard, Dampier, Western Australia.]]
The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, described at 6:1-8 in the New Testament's Book of Revelation, are four beings that ride out on white, red, black, and pale horses, symbolizing Pestilence, War, Famine, and Death, and belong to the Christian apocalyptic vision of the Last Judgment.
A marching band is a group in which instrumental musicians perform while marching, often for entertainment or competition. Instrumentation typically includes brass, woodwind, and percussion instruments.
In military organizations, the Colour Guard (or Color Guard) refers to a detachment of soldiers assigned to the protection of regimental colours. This duty is so prestigious that the colour is generally carried by a young officer (Ensign), while experienced non-commissioned officers (Colour sergeants) are assigned to the protection of the flag.
Multi-user software is software that allows access by multiple users of a computer. Time-sharing systems are multi-user systems.
}}
Union for the New Republic Union of Democrats for the Republic Rally for the Republic Union for a Popular Movement Republicans
During the 11th and 12th centuries, Sweden gradually became a unified Christian kingdom that later included what is today Finland. During the early Middle Ages, the Swedish state also expanded to control Norrland and Finland.
The European Union is a geo-political entity covering a large portion of the European continent. It is founded upon numerous treaties and has undergone expansions that have taken it from 6 member states to 28, a majority of the states in Europe.
thumb|right|280px|IBM System i 570 server (as of 2006)
The System p, formerly known as RS/6000, was IBM's RISC/UNIX-based server and workstation product line.
Optical rotation or optical activity (sometimes referred to as rotary polarization) is the rotation of the plane of polarization of linearly polarized light as it travels through certain materials. Optical activity occurs only in chiral materials, those lacking microscopic mirror symmetry.
In computing, a denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) is a cyber-attack where the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting services of a host connected to the Internet. Denial of service is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and prevent some or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.
Glome is either:
thumb|A regular 3-simplex or [[tetrahedron]]
In mathematics, the n-sphere is the generalization of the ordinary sphere to spaces of arbitrary dimension.  It is an n-dimensional manifold that can be embedded in Euclidean -space.
In geometry, a hypercube is an n-dimensional analogue of a square () and a cube (). It is a closed, compact, convex figure whose 1-skeleton consists of groups of opposite parallel line segments aligned in each of the space's dimensions, perpendicular to each other and of the same length.
A rotation is a circular movement of an object around a center (or point) of rotation. A three-dimensional object can always be rotates around an infinite number of imaginary lines called rotation axes , ).
right|frame|[[Stereographic projection of the hypersphere's parallels (red), meridians
, better known as , is a fictional superheroine who is the protagonist and titular character of the Sailor Moon manga series written by Naoko Takeuchi. She is introduced in chapter #1, &quot;Usagi – Sailor Moon&quot; (originally published in Japan's Nakayoshi magazine on December 28, 1991), as a carefree schoolgirl who can transform into Sailor Moon, the de facto leader of the Sailor Soldiers.
The long-running nature versus nurture debate is about whether human behaviour is determined by the environment, either prenatal or during a person's life, or by a person's genes. The alliterative expression &quot;nature and nurture&quot; in English has been in use since at least the Elizabethan periodIn English at least since Shakespeare (The Tempest 4.
Dub mac Maíl Coluim (Modern Gaelic: Dubh mac Mhaoil Chaluim),Dub mac Maíl Coluim is the Mediaeval Gaelic form. The modern form, Dubh, has the sense of &quot;dark&quot; or &quot;black&quot;, especially in reference to hair colour sometimes anglicised as Duff MacMalcolm,This form was used in older histories, but is not commonly used today called Dén, &quot;the Vehement&quot;Duan Albanach, 23 here and Niger, &quot;the Black&quot;Chronicle of the Kings of Alba and related Scoto-Latin texts.
7 July 1572
Net profit, also referred to as the bottom line, net income, or net earnings is a measure of the profitability of a venture after accounting for all costs. It is the actual profit, and  includes the operating expenses that are excluded from gross profit.
A battering ram is a siege engine that originated in ancient times and designed to break open the masonry walls of fortifications or splinter their wooden gates.
In statistics, many statistical tests calculate correlations between variables and when two variables are found to be correlated, it is tempting to assume that this shows that one variable causes the other. That &quot;correlation proves causation,&quot; is considered a questionable cause logical fallacy when two events occurring together are taken to have established a cause-and-effect relationship.
A Roman villa was a country house built for the upper class in the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire.
An outboard motor is a propulsion system for boats, consisting of a self-contained unit that includes engine, gearbox and propeller or jet drive, designed to be affixed to the outside of the transom. They are the most common motorized method of propelling small watercraft.
The Roman conquest of Britain was a gradual process, beginning effectively in AD 43 under Emperor Claudius, whose general Aulus Plautius served as first governor of Roman Britain (). Great Britain had already frequently been the target of invasions, planned and actual, by forces of the Roman Republic and Roman Empire.
Biosalinity is the study and practice of using saline (salty) water for irrigating agricultural crops.
}}
A horoscope is an astrological chart or diagram representing the positions of the Sun, Moon, planets, astrological aspects and sensitive angles at the time of an event, such as the moment of a person's birth. The word horoscope is derived from Greek words hõra and scopos meaning &quot;time&quot; and &quot;observer&quot; (horoskopos, pl.
Scholastic}}
DNS is the Domain Name System, a network system used to translate names into IP addresses.
Domain}}
thumb|[[St Mary-le-Bow]]
thumb|right|Valéry Giscard d’Estaing, President of the European Convention
The history of the Bahamas, begins with the earliest arrival of humans in the islands in the first millennium AD. The first inhabitants of the islands now known as The Bahamas were the Lucayans, an Arawakan-speaking Taino people, who arrived between about 500 and 800 from the islands of the Caribbean.
A sanity test or sanity check is a basic test to quickly evaluate whether a claim or the result of a calculation can possibly be true. It is a simple check to see if the produced material is rational (that the material's creator was thinking rationally, applying sanity).
Bahrain is an island country in the Persian Gulf. The history of Bahrain dates back to ancient history.
Year 1411 (MCDXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1412 (MCDXII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) on the Julian calendar.
Year 1413 (MCDXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1414 (MCDXIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1416 (MCDXVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1417 (MCDXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1418 (MCDXVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1419 (MCDXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1420 (MCDXX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1422 (MCDXXII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1423 (MCDXXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1424 (MCDXXIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1425 (MCDXXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1426 (MCDXXVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1427 (MCDXXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1428 (MCDXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1429 (MCDXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1430 (MCDXXX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1432 (MCDXXXII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1433 (MCDXXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1434 (MCDXXXIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1435 (MCDXXXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1438 (MCDXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1439 (MCDXXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1440 (MCDXL) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1441 (MCDXLI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1442 (MCDXLII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1443 (MCDXLIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1444 (MCDXLIV) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1445 (MCDXLV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1446 (MCDXLVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1447 (MCDXLVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1448 (MCDXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1449 (MCDXLIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Narcosis}}
The history of New Zealand dates back at least 700 years to when it was discovered and settled by Polynesians, who developed a distinct Māori culture centred on kinship links and land. The first European explorer to sight New Zealand was Dutch navigator Abel Tasman on 13 December 1642.
Malta has a long history and has been inhabited since settlers from Sicily arrived around 5200 BC.p.
The Negro leagues were United States professional baseball leagues comprising teams predominantly made up of African Americans and, to a lesser extent, Latin Americans. The term may be used broadly to include professional black teams outside the leagues and it may be used narrowly for the seven relatively successful leagues beginning in 1920 that are sometimes termed &quot;Negro Major Leagues.
Year 1301 (MCCCI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1302 (MCCCII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1303 (MCCCIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1304 (MCCCIV) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1305 (MCCCV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1306 (MCCCVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1309 (MCCCIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1312 (MCCCXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1311 (MCCCXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1310 (MCCCX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1314 (MCCCXIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1315 (MCCCXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1316 (MCCCXVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1317 (MCCCXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1318 (MCCCXVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1319 (MCCCXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1321 (MCCCXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1324 (MCCCXXIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1325 (MCCCXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1327 (MCCCXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1328 (MCCCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1329 (MCCCXXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1330 (MCCCXXX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1332 (MCCCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1335 (MCCCXXXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1337 (MCCCXXXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1339 (MCCCXXXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1298 (MCCXCVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1296 (MCCXCVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1295 (MCCXCV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1294 (MCCXCIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1293 (MCCXCIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1292 (MCCXCII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1291 (MCCXCI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1290 (MCCXC) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1276 (MCCLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1275 (MCCLXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1274 (MCCLXXIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1273 (MCCLXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1272 (MCCLXXII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1271 (MCCLXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1270 (MCCLXX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1216 (MCCXVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1217 (MCCXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1218 (MCCXVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1219 (MCCXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1213 (MCCXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1212 (MCCXII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1211 (MCCXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1210 (MCCX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1208 (MCCVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1207 (MCCVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1206 (MCCVI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1203 (MCCIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. It was also the first year to have all digits different from each other since 1098.
Year 1201 (MCCI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1195 (MCXCV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1194 (MCXCIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1193 (MCXCIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1191 (MCXCI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1190 (MCXC) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1169 (MCLXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1167 (MCLXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1166 (MCLXVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1162 (MCLXII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1160 (MCLX) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Skeleton returned to the program of the Winter Olympic Games for the first time in 54 years at the 2002 Games in Salt Lake City.  This was the first time Olympic competitions in skeleton were held during an Olympics outside of St.
Year 990 (CMXC) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 993 (CMXCIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 994 (CMXCIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 996 (CMXCVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 997 (CMXCVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 998 (CMXCVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
[USS Texas 1932.jpg|thumb|USS Texas]
A killer is someone or something that kills, such as a murderer.
Year 1031 (MXXXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1032 (MXXXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1033 (MXXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1035 (MXXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1037 (MXXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1038 (MXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
MBE most commonly refers to Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, a grade within the British order of chivalry.
Year 1039 (MXXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1041 (MXLI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1042 (MXLII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1043 (MXLIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1044 (MXLIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1046 (MXLVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1047 (MXLVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1048 (MXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1049 (MXLIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1051 (MLI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1052 (MLII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1056 (MLVI) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1059 (MLIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Nordic combined is a winter sport in which athletes compete in cross-country skiing and ski jumping. Nordic combined at the Winter Olympics and the FIS Nordic Combined World Cup are ongoing.
Individual (50) Individual (40)Team event (4)
Freestyle skiing is a  skiing discipline comprising aerials, moguls, cross, half-pipe and slopestyle as part of the Winter Olympics. It can consist of a skier performing aerial flips and spins, and can include skiers sliding rails and boxes on their skis.
Short track speed skating is a form of competitive ice speed skating. In competitions, multiple skaters (typically between four and six) skate on an oval ice track with a length of .
Year 1197 (MCXCVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1198 (MCXCVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1199 (MCXCIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1231 (MCCXXXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1230 (MCCXXX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1233 (MCCXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year ] ( will display the full calendar) of the MCCXXXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1236 (MCCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1237 (MCCXXXVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1239 (MCCXXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1131 (MCXXXI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1132 (MCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1133 (MCXXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1134 (MCXXXIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1136 (MCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1137 (MCXXXVII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1138 (MCXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1140 (MCXL) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1145 (MCXLV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1148 (MCXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1149 (MCXLIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1151 (MCLI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1150 (MCL) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1159 (MCLIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1171 (MCLXXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1174 (MCLXXIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1175 (MCLXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1177 (MCLXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1178 (MCLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1182 (MCLXXXII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1183 (MCLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1184 (MCLXXXIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1185 (MCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1186 (MCLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Modern Bangladesh emerged as an independent nation in 1971 after breaking away and achieving independence from Pakistan in the Bangladesh liberation war. The country's borders coincide with the major portion of the ancient and historic region of Bengal in the eastern part of the Indian subcontinent, where civilisation dates back over four millennia, to the Chalcolithic.
The hobby of collecting includes seeking, locating, acquiring, organizing, cataloging, displaying, storing, and maintaining whatever items are of interest to the individual collector. The scope of collecting is unlimited, which is expressed in the hyperbolic expression: &quot;If something exists, somebody somewhere collects them.
The Ides of March (, Late Latin: ) is a day on the Roman calendar that corresponds to  March 15. It was marked by several religious observances and was notable for the Romans as a deadline for settling debtshttp://news.
Escherichia coli (; also known as E. coli) is a gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped, coliform bacterium of the genus Escherichia that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms).
Fair serial, whose canary-yellow color became a Thackeray hallmark. Thackeray was also responsible for its illustrations.
Acetic acid bacteria (AAB) are a group of Gram-negative bacteria which oxidize sugars or ethanol and produce acetic acid during fermentation. The acetic acid bacteria consist of 10 genera in the family Acetobacteraceae.
Arthrobacter (from the Greek, &quot;jointed small stick”), such as the Arthrobacter pascens, is a genus of bacteria that is commonly found in soil. All species in this genus are Gram-positive obligate aerobes
Mineral salts pyridone broth is a selective medium for bacteria that can metabolize pyridone (which is an unusual carbon source that a select few types of bacteria can use). This medium is used to isolate bacteria belonging to the Arthrobacter genus among other bacteria genera.
Bacillus cereus is a Gram-positive, rod-shaped, aerobic, facultatively anaerobic, motile, beta hemolytic bacterium commonly found in soil and food. Some strains are harmful to humans and cause foodborne illness, while other strains can be beneficial as probiotics for animals.
Lumen gentium, the Dogmatic Constitution on the Church, is one of the principal documents of the Second Vatican Council.  This dogmatic constitution was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 21 November 1964, following approval by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,151 to 5.
Dei verbum (the incipit of the Second Vatican Council's Dogmatic Constitution on Divine Revelation) was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on November 18, 1965, following approval by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,344 to 6. It is one of the principal documents of the Second Vatican Council, indeed their very foundation in the view of one of the leading Council Fathers, Bishop Christopher Butler.
[growth.png|250px|right|thumb|Growth is shown as L = log(numbers) where numbers is the number of colony forming units per ml, versus T (time.
Bdellovibrio is a genus of Gram-negative, obligate aerobic bacteria.  One of the more notable characteristics of this genus is that members parasitize other Gram-negative bacteria by entering into their periplasmic space and feeding on the biopolymers, e.
thumb|300px|Anglo-Saxon king with his witan. Biblical scene in the [[Old English Hexateuch|Illustrated Old English Hexateuch (11th century), portraying Pharaoh in court session, after passing judgment on his chief baker and chief cupbearer]]
Divorce, also known as dissolution of marriage, is the termination of a marriage or marital union, the canceling or reorganizing of the legal duties and responsibilities of marriage, thus dissolving the bonds of matrimony between a married couple under the rule of law of the particular country or state. Divorce laws vary considerably around the world, but in most countries divorce requires the sanction of a court or other authority in a legal process, which may involve issues of alimony (spousal support), child custody, child visitation / access, parenting time, child support, distribution of property, and division of debt.
1022
Godwin of Wessex (; 100115 April 1053) was one of the most powerful earls in England under the Danish king Cnut the Great and his successors. Cnut made him the first Earl of Wessex.
Khlysts or Khlysty () was an underground sect from late 17th to early 20th century that split off the Russian Orthodox Church and belonged to the Spiritual Christians (духовные христиане) tendency.
Metropolitan Michael I of Kiev
Darmstadtium is a chemical element with symbol Ds and atomic number 110. It is an extremely radioactive synthetic element.
Broca's area or the Broca area  or  is a region in the frontal lobe of the dominant hemisphere (usually the left) of the hominid brain with functions linked to speech production.
ATF may refer to:
The 8th century BC started the first day of 800 BC and ended the last day of 701 BC. The 8th century BC is a period of great change for several historically significant civilizations.
The 9th century BC started the first day of 900 BC and ended the last day of 801 BC. It was a period of great change for several civilizations.
Joseph Priestley FRS  (;&quot;Priestley&quot;: Collins English Dictionary – Complete &amp; Unabridged 2012 Digital Edition.  – 6 February 1804) was an 18th-century English theologian, English Dissenters clergyman, natural philosopher, chemist, innovative grammarian, multi-subject educator, and liberal political theorist who published over 150 works.
==Events and trends==
During the 7th millennium BC, agriculture spread from Anatolia to the Balkans.
During the 6th millennium BC, agriculture spread from the Balkans to Italy and Eastern Europe, and also from Mesopotamia to Egypt. World population was essentially stable at numbers ranging between approximately 5 and 7 million.
The Bessemer process was the first inexpensive industrial process for the mass production of steel from molten pig iron before the development of the open hearth furnace.  The key principle is removal of impurities from the iron by oxidation with air being blown through the molten iron.
thumb|200px|right|Europe and surrounding areas in the 9th millennium BC. Blue areas are covered in ice.
Photomontage is the process and the result of making a composite photograph by cutting, gluing, rearranging and overlapping two or more photographs into a new image. Sometimes the resulting composite image is photographed so that a final image may appear as a seamless photographic print.
thumb|240px|Map of the world in 1000 BC
In the 8th millennium BC, agriculture became widely practised in the Fertile Crescent and Anatolia.
A conjugate acid, within the Brønsted–Lowry acid–base theory, is a species formed by the reception of a proton (H+) by a base—in other words, it is a base with a hydrogen ion added to it. On the other hand, a conjugate base is merely what is left after an acid has donated a proton in a chemical reaction.
The founding of Rome can be investigated through archaeology, but traditional stories handed down by the ancient Romans themselves explain the earliest history of their city in terms of legend and myth.
Telecommunications in Azerbaijan provides information about television, radio, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet in Azerbaijan.
The transport in Azerbaijan involves air traffic, waterways and railroads. All transportation services in Azerbaijan except for oil and gas pipelines are regulated by the Ministry of Transportation of Azerbaijan Republic.
Vapor pressure or equilibrium vapor pressure is defined as the pressure exerted by a vapor in thermodynamic equilibrium with its condensed phases (solid or liquid) at a given temperature in a closed system. The equilibrium vapor pressure is an indication of a liquid's evaporation rate.
The 12th century BC is the period from 1200 to 1101 BC. The Late Bronze Age collapse in the ancient Near East and eastern Mediterranean is often considered to begin in this century.
, flying Servicing Mission 4 (STS-125), the sixth and final Hubble mission|style=padding: 2px 0;}}
The Foreign relations of Albania are its relations with other governments and peoples. Foreign relations are conducted through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Tirana.
Transport in Albania  relies on several main modes, including transport by road, rail, water and air. It has undergone significant changes in the past two decades, vastly modernizing the country's infrastructure.
Telecommunications in Albania include radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
$36.524 billion (PPP, 2017)  $13.
thumb|175px|right|Sidewise Award for [[Murray Davies's novel Collaborator]]
John Morton (c.1420 – 15 September 1500) was an English prelate who served as Archbishop of Canterbury from 1486 until his death and also Lord Chancellor of England from 1487.
Niccolò de Romanisalso Nicola de Romanis or Nicholas de Romanis; Nicholas of Tusculum. According to W.
thumb|250px|Lt. Col.
Algeria is rich in prehistoric memorials of human occupation, especially in megalithic remains, of which nearly every known kind has been found in the country.  Numerous flints of palaeolithic type have been discovered, notably at Tlemcen and Kolea.
Politics of Algeria takes place in a framework of a constitutional semi-presidential republic, whereby the President of Algeria is head of state while the Prime Minister of Algeria is the head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government.
A magnetic mirror, known as a magnetic trap in Russia, is a type of magnetic confinement device used in fusion power to trap high temperature plasma using magnetic fields. The mirror was one of the earliest major approaches to fusion power, along with the stellarator and z-pinch machines.
A geosynchronous orbit (sometimes abbreviated GSO) is an orbit around Earth of a satellite with an orbital period that matches Earth's rotation on its axis, which takes one sidereal day (23 hours, 56 minutes, and 4 seconds).V.
(aged about 63)
Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) is an effort to standardize computer networking that was started in 1977 by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), along with the ITU-T.
Halotolerance is the adaptation of living organisms to conditions of high salinity.Walter Larcher, 2001 Halotolerant species tend to live in areas such as hypersaline lakes, coastal dunes, saline deserts, salt marshes, and inland salt seas and springs.
thumb|300px|Cross-section diagram of a Pulsed Inductive Thruster. [1] The gas is puffed inward through a central nozzle, towards the flat electromagnetic coil where it is ionized.
The Variable Specific Impulse Magnetoplasma Rocket (VASIMR) is an electromagnetic thruster for spacecraft propulsion. It uses radio waves to ionize and heat a propellant.
Many alphabets have been devised for the Mongolian language over the centuries, and from a variety of scripts. The oldest, called simply the Mongolian script, has been the predominant script during most of Mongolian history, and is still in active use today in the Inner Mongolia region of China and de facto use in Mongolia.
Specific impulse (usually abbreviated Isp) is a measure of the efficiency of rocket and jet engines. By definition, it is the total impulse (or change in momentum) delivered per unit of propellant consumed and is dimensionally equivalent to the generated thrust divided by the propellant mass or weight flow rate.
Rowrbrazzle is an Amateur Press Association magazine devoted to funny animal cartoon illustration.
Precognition (from the Latin præ-, &quot;before&quot; and cognitio, &quot;acquiring knowledge&quot;), also called prescience, future vision, future sight is an alleged psychic ability to see events in the future.
thumb|The 2006 NASA [[Space Technology 5|ST5 spacecraft antenna. This complicated shape was found by an evolutionary computer design program to create the best radiation pattern.
}}
In computing, a trusted client is a device or program controlled by the user of a service, but with restrictions designed to prevent its use in ways not authorized by the provider of the service. That is, the client is a device that vendors trust and then sell to the consumers, whom they do not trust.
In music, harmony considers the process by which the composition of individual sounds, or superpositions of sounds, is analysed by hearing. Usually, this means simultaneously occurring frequencies, pitches (tones, notes), or chords.
17 March 1040
Vibrator may refer to:
Industrial sociology, until recently a crucial research area within the field of sociology of work, examines &quot;the direction and implications of trends in technological change, globalization, labour markets, work organization, managerial practices and employment relations to the extent to which these trends are intimately related to changing patterns of inequality in modern societies and to the changing experiences of individuals and families the ways in which workers challenge, resist and make their own contributions to the patterning of work and shaping of work institutions.&quot;Watson, Tony J.
thumb|[[Whitewater kayaking at Great Falls, Virginia]]
right|thumb|250px|An example of blackboard bold letters
Corpus linguistics is the study of language as expressed in corpora (samples) of &quot;real world&quot; text. The text-corpus method is a digestive approach for deriving a set of abstract rules, from a text, for governing a natural language, and how that language relates to and with another language; originally derived manually, corpora now are automatically derived from the source texts.
In mathematics, logic, and computer science, a type theory is any of a class of formal systems, some of which can serve as alternatives to set theory as a foundation for all mathematics. In type theory, every &quot;term&quot; has a &quot;type&quot; and operations are restricted to terms of a certain type.
The melting point (or, rarely, liquefaction point) of a solid is the temperature at which it changes state from solid to liquid at atmospheric pressure. At the melting point the solid and liquid phase exist in equilibrium.
A cam is a rotating or sliding piece in a mechanical linkage used especially in transforming rotary motion into linear motion or vice versa. It is often a part of a rotating wheel (e.
The , more commonly called the Nikkei, the Nikkei index, or the Nikkei Stock Average (, , or ), is a stock market index for the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE). It has been calculated daily by the Nihon Keizai Shinbun (Nikkei) newspaper since 1950.
The Hawker Siddeley Nimrod was a maritime patrol aircraft developed and operated by the United Kingdom. It was an extensive modification of the de Havilland Comet, the world's first operational jet airliner.
Chicago Tribune - After death, a question about Jane Byrne's birth date (November 14, 2014)
An important field of plasma physics is the stability of the plasma. It usually only makes sense to analyze the stability of a plasma once it has been established that the plasma is in equilibrium.
Magnetohydrodynamics (MHD; also magneto-fluid dynamics or hydromagnetics) is the study of the magnetic properties of electrically conducting fluids. Examples of such magnetofluids include plasmas, liquid metals, salt water and electrolytes.
The Great Chicago Fire was a conflagration that burned from Sunday, October 8, to early Tuesday, October 10, 1871. The fire killed up to 300 people, destroyed roughly  of Chicago, Illinois, and left more than 100,000 residents homeless.
Universal grammar (UG) in linguistics, is the theory of the genetic component of the language faculty, usually credited to Noam Chomsky. The basic postulate of UG is that a certain set of structural rules are innate to humans, independent of sensory experience.
right|thumb|[[Ben Nevis is the highest Munro and highest mountain in Britain]]
/ }}
UTF-16 (16-bit Unicode Transformation Format) is a character encoding capable of encoding all 1,112,064 valid code points of Unicode. The encoding is variable-length, as code points are encoded with one or two 16-bit code units.
Portland cement is the most common type of cement in general use around the world as a basic ingredient of concrete, mortar, stucco, and non-speciality grout.  It was developed from other types of hydraulic lime in England in the mid 19th century, and usually originates from limestone.
border
* hard rock
Inertial confinement fusion (ICF) is a type of fusion energy research that attempts to initiate nuclear fusion reactions by heating and compressing a fuel target, typically in the form of a pellet that most often contains a mixture of deuterium and tritium.
Quadratic programming (QP) is the process of solving a special type of mathematical optimization problem—specifically, a (linearly constrained) quadratic optimization problem, that is, the problem of optimizing (minimizing or maximizing) a quadratic function of several variables subject to linear constraints on these variables. Quadratic programming is a particular type of nonlinear programming.
In mathematics, positive semidefinite may refer to:
In linear algebra, a symmetric  real matrix M is said to be positive definite if the scalar z^{\mathrm{T}}Mz is positive for every non-zero column vector z of n real numbers. Here z^{\mathrm{T}} denotes the transpose of z.
Cretaceous - Recent
Cannoli (; ) are Italian pastries of the Sicily region. The singular is cannolo (; in the Sicilian language cannolu), meaning &quot;little tube&quot;, with the etymology stemming from the Greek kanna (reed).
Magnolia is a large genus of about 210The number of species in the genus Magnolia depends on the taxonomic view that one takes up. Recent molecular and morphological research shows that former genera Talauma, Dugandiodendron, Manglietia, Michelia, Elmerrillia, Kmeria, Parakmeria, Pachylarnax (and a small number of monospecific genera) all belong within the same genus, Magnolia s.
http://rruff.geo.
Semiconductor devices are electronic components that exploit the electronic properties of semiconductor materials, principally silicon, germanium, and gallium arsenide, as well as organic semiconductors. Semiconductor devices have replaced thermionic devices (vacuum tubes) in most applications.
[Structure.png|thumb|MOSFET showing gate (G), body (B), source (S) and drain (D) terminals.
The junction gate field-effect transistor (JFET or JUGFET) is the simplest type of field-effect transistor. They are three-terminal semiconductor devices that can be used as electronically-controlled switches, amplifiers, or voltage-controlled resistors.
The House of Babenberg was a noble dynasty of Austrian margraves and dukes. Originally from Bamberg in the Duchy of Franconia (present-day Bavaria), the Babenbergs ruled the Imperial Margraviate of Austria from its creation in 976 AD until its elevation to a duchy, and from then until the extinction of the line in 1246, whereafter they were succeeded by the House of Habsburg.
Sacrosanctum Concilium, the Constitution on the Sacred Liturgy, is one of the constitutions of the Second Vatican Council. It was approved by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,147 to 4 and promulgated by Pope Paul VI on December 4, 1963.
}}
Gaudium et spes (, Joy and Hope), the Pastoral Constitution on the Church in the Modern World, was one of the four constitutions resulting from the Second Vatican Council. The document is an overview of the Catholic Church's teachings about humanity's relationship to society, especially in reference to economics, poverty, social justice, culture, science, technology and ecumenism.
(Latin)&quot;Through Labour and Perseverance&quot;
In computing, an optimizing compiler is a compiler that tries to minimize or maximize some attributes of an executable computer program. The most common requirement is to minimize the time taken to execute a program; a less common one is to minimize the amount of memory occupied.
Due process is the legal requirement that the state must respect all legal rights that are owed to a person. Due process balances the power of law of the land and protects the individual person from it.
A radiation dosimeter is a device that measures exposure to ionizing radiation. It has two main uses: for human radiation protection and for measurement of dose in both medical and industrial processes.
}}
A galvanometer is an electromechanical instrument for detecting and measuring electric current. The most common use of galvanometers was as analog measuring instruments, called ammeters, used to measure the direct current (flow of electric charge) through an electric circuit.
ADC may refer to:
In electronics, an analog-to-digital converter (ADC, A/D, A–D, or A-to-D) is a system that converts an analog signal, such as a sound picked up by a microphone or light entering a digital camera, into a digital signal. An ADC may also provide an isolated measurement such as an electronic device that converts an input analog voltage or current to a digital number proportional to the magnitude of the voltage or current.
Space technology is technology developed by space science or the aerospace industry for use in spaceflight, satellites, or space exploration. Space technology includes spacecraft, satellites, space stations, and support infrastructure, equipment, and procedures.
}}
}}
EFF or eff may refer to:
SVG is an acronym that can stand for:
Chat or chats may refer to:-
}}
{|
border
Harold Paul Furth (January 13, 1930, Vienna – February 21, 2002, Philadelphia) was an Austrian-American physicist.
A mnemonic (, the first &quot;m&quot; is silent) device, or memory device, is any learning technique that aids information retention in the human memory. Mnemonics make use of elaborative encoding, retrieval cues, and imagery as specific tools to encode any given information in a way that allows for efficient storage and retrieval.
A license (American English) or licence (British English)Cambridge Advanced Learner's Dictionary is an official permission or permit to do, use, or own something (as well as the document of that permission or permit).
Perfectæ Caritatis, the Decree on the Adaptation and Renewal of Religious Life, is the document issued by the Second Vatican Council which deals specifically with institutes of consecrated life in the Roman Catholic Church.  One of the shorter documents of the Council, the decree was approved by a vote of 2,321 to 4 of the assembled bishops, and promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 28 October 1965.
Optatam Totius, the Decree on Priestly Training, is a document which was produced by the Second Vatican Council.  Approved by a vote of 2,318 to 3 of the bishops assembled at the council, the decree was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on October 28, 1965.
This depiction is taken from A.T.
Fort Dearborn was a United States fort built in 1803 beside the Chicago River, in what is now Chicago, Illinois. It was constructed by troops under Captain John Whistler and named in honor of Henry Dearborn, then United States Secretary of War.
Sandburg's father's last name was originally &quot;Danielson&quot; or &quot;Sturm&quot;. He could read but not write, and he accepted whatever spelling other people used.
&quot;Waltzing Matilda&quot; is Australia's best-known bush ballad, and has been described as the country's &quot;unofficial national anthem&quot;.
Barbados was inhabited by Arawaks and Caribs at the time of European colonization of the Americas in the 16th century. The island was an English and later British colony from 1625 until 1966.
The Pilgrims or Pilgrim Fathers were early European settlers of the Plymouth Colony in present-day Plymouth, Massachusetts, United States. The Pilgrims' leadership came from the religious congregations of Brownist English Dissenters who had fled the volatile political environment in England for the relative calm and tolerance of 16th–17th century Holland in the Netherlands.
Ivan Vidav (January 17, 1918 – October 6, 2015) was a Slovenian mathematician.
California's &quot;First&quot; City
The United States presidential election of 1788–89 was the first quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Monday, December 15, 1788, to Saturday, January 10, 1789.
The United States presidential election of 1792 was the second quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Friday, November 2 to Wednesday, December 5, 1792.
The United States presidential election of 1796 was the third quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Friday, November 4 to Wednesday, December 7, 1796.
The United States presidential election of 1800 was the fourth quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Friday, October 31 to Wednesday, December 3, 1800.
Presbyterorum Ordinis, the Decree on the Ministry and Life of Priests, is one of the documents produced by the Second Vatican Council.  On 7 December 1965 the document was promulgated by Pope Paul VI, after an approval vote of 2,390 to 4 among the assembled bishops.
thumb|250px|right|[[Spartina alterniflora (cordgrass), a halophyte.]]
Vsevolod I Yaroslavich (Russian:  Всеволод I Ярославович, Ukrainian: Всеволод I Ярославич, Old Norse: Vissivald), (1030 – 13 April 1093) ruled as Grand Prince of Kiev from 1078 until his death.
Baker v. Vermont, 744 A.
The United States presidential election of 1804 was the fifth quadrennial presidential election, held from Friday, November 2, to Wednesday, December 5, 1804. It pitted incumbent Democratic-Republican President Thomas Jefferson against Federalist Charles Cotesworth Pinckney of South Carolina, a hero of the American Revolutionary War and former Ambassador to France.
The United States presidential election of 1808 was the sixth quadrennial presidential election, held from Friday, November 4, to Wednesday, December 7, 1808. The Democratic-Republican candidate James Madison defeated Federalist candidate Charles Cotesworth Pinckney decisively.
The United States presidential election of 1812 was the seventh quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Friday, October 30 to Wednesday, December 2, 1812, and took place in the shadow of the War of 1812.
Pierluigi Martini Alessandro Nannini Andrea de Cesaris Gianni Morbidelli Christian Fittipaldi Alessandro Zanardi Michele Alboreto Luca Badoer Pedro Lamy Giancarlo Fisichella Jarno Trulli Marc Gené Fernando Alonso Mark Webber Jos Verstappen Justin Wilson Zsolt Baumgartner Gianmaria Bruni Christijan Albers Robert Doornbos
)
Bullshit (also bullcrap) is a common English expletive which may be shortened to the euphemism bull or the initialism BS. In British English, &quot;bollocks&quot; is a comparable expletive.
border
thumb|right|A [[Romanian soldier instructs a U.S.
right|thumb|Resin secreted by the female lac bug on trees is processed and sold as dry flakes.
Year 1256 (MCCLVI) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Apostolicam Actuositatem is the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Apostolate of the Laity.  It was approved by a vote of 2,340 to 2 of bishops assembled at the Council, and promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 18 November 1965.
In Greek mythology, Proetus ( Proitos) may refer to the following personages:
Julian Karol Sochocki (, ; February 2, 1842 in Warsaw, Congress Poland, Russian Empire – December 14, 1927 in Leningrad, Soviet Union) was a Russian-Polish mathematician.  His name is sometimes transliterated from Russian in several different ways (e.
The United States presidential election of 1816 was the eighth quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Friday, November 1 to Wednesday, December 4, 1816.
The United States presidential election of 1820 was the ninth quadrennial presidential election. It was held from Wednesday, November 1, to Wednesday, December 6, 1820.
The United States presidential election of 1824 was the tenth quadrennial presidential election, held from Tuesday, October 26, to Thursday, December 2, 1824. John Quincy Adams was elected President on February 9, 1825.
2.2 pp
2.4 pp
22.4 pp
1.3 pp
6.2 pp
3.1 pp
9.3 pp
2.3 pp
7.4 pp
4.3 pp
6.8 pp
Banglades can refer to:
3.8 pp
0.5 pp
1.8 pp
4.6 pp
4.6 pp
6.1 pp
8.0 pp
0.2 pp
6.6 pp
2.8 pp
12.4 pp
0.3 pp
8.0 pp
Adalbert of Magdeburg, sometimes incorrectly shortened to &quot;Albert&quot; (c. 910 - 20 June 981), and known as the Apostle of the Slavs, was the first Archbishop of Magdeburg (from 968) and a successful missionary to the Polabian Slavs to the east of what is contemporarily Germany.
The President of the Council of Ministers (Polish: Prezes Rady Ministrów), colloquially referred to as the Prime Minister of Poland (Polish: Premier Polski), is the leader of the cabinet and the head of government of Poland.Jagielski, pp.
0.0 pp
Campaign finance reform is the political effort in the United States to change the involvement of money in politics, primarily in political campaigns.
4.1 pp
1.5 pp
6.6 pp
2.9 pp
10.3 pp
2.7 pp
2.2%
0.9 pp
1.0 pp
5.7%
1.6 pp
1.0 pp
0.7 pp
NLP may refer to:
15 July 1015
Christus Dominus is the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Pastoral Office of Bishops.  It was approved by a vote of 2,319 to 2 of the assembled bishops and was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 28 October 1965.
A gill () is a respiratory organ found in many aquatic organisms that extracts dissolved oxygen from water and excretes carbon dioxide. The gills of some species, such as hermit crabs, have adapted to allow respiration on land provided they are kept moist.
Perineal|Peroneal (disambiguation)Peroneal}}
The pistachio (,}} Pistacia vera), a member of the cashew family, is a small tree originating from Central Asia and the Middle East.AL-Saghir, M.
Sea lemon is a loosely applied common name for a group of medium-sized to large shell-less colorful sea slugs or nudibranchs, specifically dorid nudibranchs in the taxonomic family Dorididae and other closely related families. These are marine gastropod mollusks.
thumb|Vladimir is buried in this cathedral he built in Novgorod.
A pseudonym (  and  ) or alias is a name that a person or group assumes for a particular purpose, which can differ from their original or true name (orthonym).Room (2010, 3).
or 1757
Otto II (955 – December 7, 983), called the Red (Rufus), was Holy Roman Emperor from 973 until his death in 983. A member of the Ottonian dynasty, Otto II was the youngest and sole surviving son of Otto the Great and Adelaide of Italy.
Caprera is an island in the Maddalena archipelago off the coast of Sardinia, Italy.
Sviatoslav I Igorevich (Old East Slavic: С~тославъ / Свѧтославъ Игорєвичь, Sventoslavŭ / Svantoslavŭ Igorevičǐ; Old Norse:  Sveinald Ingvarsson) (c. 942 – March 972), also spelled Svyatoslav was a Grand prince of Kiev famous for his persistent campaigns in the east and south, which precipitated the collapse of two great powers of Eastern Europe, Khazaria and the First Bulgarian Empire.
Watergate is the Watergate scandal, a 1972 break-in at the Watergate Hotel by members of President Richard Nixon's administration and the resulting cover-up.
Unitatis redintegratio (Latin for &quot;Restoration of unity&quot;) is the Second Vatican Council's decree on ecumenism.  It was passed by a vote of 2,137 to 11 of the bishops assembled, and was promulgated by Pope Paul VI on 21 November 1964.
A logic analyzer is an electronic instrument that captures and displays multiple signals from a digital system or digital circuit. A logic analyzer may convert the captured data into timing diagrams, protocol decodes, state machine traces, assembly language, or may correlate assembly with source-level software.
A network switch (also called switching hub, bridging hub, officially MAC bridgeIEEE 802.1D) is a computer networking device that connects devices together on a computer network by using packet switching to receive, process, and forward data to the destination device.
There are at least four main types of competitive pigeon sport:
thumb|An analog ohmmeter
A multimeter or a multitester, also known as a VOM (volt-ohm-milliammeter), is an electronic measuring instrument that combines several measurement functions in one unit. A typical multimeter can measure voltage, current, and resistance.
A beach is a landform along a body of water. It usually consists of loose particles, which are often composed of rock, such as sand, gravel, shingle, pebbles, or cobblestones.
Redundancy or redundant may refer to:
In mathematics, the convex hull or convex envelope of a set X of points in the Euclidean plane or in a Euclidean space (or, more generally, in an affine space over the reals) is the smallest convex set that contains X. For instance, when X is a bounded subset of the plane, the convex hull may be visualized as the shape enclosed by a rubber band stretched around X.
Next Step}}
Numa}}
In mathematical analysis, the Haar measure assigns an &quot;invariant volume&quot; to subsets of locally compact topological groups, consequently defining an integral for functions on those groups.
Viggo Brun (13 October 1885 – 15 August 1978) was a Norwegian professor, mathematician and number theorist.
Buffy the Vampire Slayer}}
Scale}}
In music theory, a scale is any set of musical notes ordered by fundamental frequency or pitch. A scale ordered by increasing pitch is an ascending scale, and a scale ordered by decreasing pitch is a  descending scale.
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere in 1300 BC.
The 14th century BC is a century which lasted from the year 1400 BC until 1301 BC.
The 15th century BC is a century which lasted from 1500 BC to 1401 BC.
The Kingsbury Commitment of 1913 was an out-of-court settlement of the government's antitrust challenge of AT&amp;T's growing vertical monopoly over the phone industry. In return for the government's agreement not to pursue its case against AT&amp;T as a monopolist, AT&amp;T agreed to divest the controlling interest it had acquired in the Western Union telegraph company, and to allow non-competing independent telephone companies to interconnect with the AT&amp;T long distance network.
USS Merrimack, or variant spelling USS Merrimac, may be any one of several ships commissioned in the United States Navy and named after the Merrimack River.
right|frame|Accidentals: sharp, flat, natural.
This is a list of sports history organizations
Cornish is the adjective and demonym associated with Cornwall, the most southwesterly part of the United Kingdom. It may refer to:
Abort can mean:
Absolute gain may refer to:
Access may refer to:
}}
Access time is the time delay or latency between a request to an electronic system, and the access being completed or the requested data returned
In telecommunication and electronics, baud (; symbol: Bd) is the unit for symbol rate or modulation rate in symbols per second or pulses per second. It is the number of distinct symbol changes (signaling events) made to the transmission medium per second in a digitally modulated signal or a line code.
thumb|The [[Novation CAT acoustically coupled modem]]
The active laser medium (also called gain medium or lasing medium) is the source of optical gain within a laser.  The gain results from the stimulated emission of electronic or molecular transitions to a lower energy state from a higher energy state
Adaptive communications can mean any communications system, or portion thereof, that automatically uses feedback information obtained from the system itself or from the signals carried by the system to modify dynamically one or more of the system operational parameters to improve system performance or to resist degradation.
Adaptive predictive coding (APC) is a narrowband analog-to-digital conversion that uses a one-level or multilevel sampling system in which the value of the signal at each sampling instant is predicted according to a linear function of the past values of the quantized signals.
In digital circuits, an adder–subtractor is a circuit that is capable of adding or subtracting numbers (in particular, binary).
Address or The Address may refer to:
Adjacent-channel interference (ACI) is interference caused by extraneous power from a signal in an adjacent channel. ACI may be caused by inadequate filtering (such as incomplete filtering of unwanted modulation products in FM systems), improper tuning or poor frequency control (in the reference channel, the interfering channel or both).
In telecommunication, Advanced Data Communication Control Procedures (or Protocol) (ADCCP) is a bit-oriented data link layer protocol used to provide point-to-point and point-to-multipoint transmission of data frames that contain error control information. It places data on a network and ensures proper delivery to a destination.
In telecommunications an aerial insert is a segment of cabling that rises from ground to a point above ground, followed by an overhead run, e.g.
}}
In land-line telephony, AIOD leads are  Terminal equipment leads used solely to transmit automatic identified outward dialing (AIOD) data from a PBX to the public switched telephone network or to switched service networks (e.g.
Airborne radio relay is a technique employing aircraft fitted with radio relay stations for the purpose of increasing the range, flexibility, or physical security of communications systems.Definition: airborne radio relay, Federal Standard 1037C, General Services Administration, August 23, 1996.
In telecommunication, the term alarm sensor has the following meanings:
An A-law algorithm is a standard companding algorithm, used in European 8-bit PCM digital communications systems to optimize, i.e.
The Allan variance (AVAR), also known as two-sample variance, is a measure of frequency stability in clocks, oscillators and amplifiers, named after David W. Allan and expressed mathematically as \sigma_y^2(\tau).
Alternate party diversion is an optional feature of telephone services, whereby a call may be routed to a different number based on time-out and precedence schemes set up by the customer.
thumb|right|Integrating Sound Level Meter
Amplitude distortion is distortion occurring in a system, subsystem, or device when the output amplitude is not a linear function of the input amplitude under specified conditions.
In waveguide design and construction, angular misalignment loss is power loss caused by the deviation from optimum angular alignment of the axes of source-to-waveguide, waveguide-to-waveguide, or waveguide-to-detector. The waveguide may be dielectric (an optical fiber) or metallic.
In telecommunications, antenna blind cone (sometimes called a cone of silence or antenna blind spot) is the volume of space, usually approximately conical with its vertex at the antenna, that cannot be scanned by an antenna because of limitations of the antenna radiation pattern and mount.
In telecommunication, antenna noise temperature is the temperature of a hypothetical resistor at the input of an ideal noise-free receiver that would generate the same output noise power per unit bandwidth as that at the antenna output at a specified frequency.  In other words, antenna noise temperature is a parameter that describes how much noise an antenna produces in a given environment.
In telecommunication, aperture-to-medium coupling loss is the difference between the theoretical antenna gain of a very large antenna, such as the antennas in beyond-the-horizon microwave links, and the gain that can be realized in practice.
thumb|300px|A left arithmetic shift of a binary number by 1. The empty position in the [[least significant bit is filled with a zero.
Automatic Repeat reQuest (ARQ), also known as Automatic Repeat Query, is an error-control method for data transmission that uses acknowledgements (messages sent by the receiver indicating that it has correctly received a data frame or packet) and timeouts (specified periods of time allowed to elapse before an acknowledgment is to be received) to achieve reliable data transmission over an unreliable service. If the sender does not receive an acknowledgment before the timeout, it usually re-transmits the frame/packet until the sender receives an acknowledgment or exceeds a predefined number of re-transmissions .
}}
In telecommunication, an artificial transmission line is a two-port electrical network that has the characteristic impedance, transmission time delay, phase shift, or other parameter(s) of a real transmission line. It can be used to simulate a real transmission line in one or more of these respects.
In telecommunications, asynchronous operation or asynchronous working is where a sequence of operations is executed such that the operations are executed out of time coincidence with any event.  It can also be an operation that occurs without a regular or predictable time relationship to a specified event; e.
In telecommunications, an atmospheric duct is a horizontal layer in the lower atmosphere in which the vertical refractive index gradients are such that radio signals (and light rays) are guided or ducted, tend to follow the curvature of the Earth, and experience less attenuation in the ducts than they would if the ducts were not present. The duct acts as an atmospheric dielectric waveguide and limits the spread of the wavefront to only the horizontal dimension.
In telecommunication, attack time is the time between the instant that a signal at the input of a device or circuit exceeds the activation threshold of the device or circuit and the instant that the device or circuit reacts in a specified manner, or to a specified degree, to the input.  Attack time occurs in devices such as clippers, peak limiters, compressors, and voxes.
ARJ (Archived by Robert Jung) is a software tool designed by Robert K. Jung for creating high-efficiency compressed file archives.
In physics, attenuation or, in some contexts, extinction is the gradual loss of flux intensity through a medium. For instance, dark glasses attenuate sunlight, lead attenuates X-rays, and water and air attenuates both light and sound at variable attenuation rates.
An attenuator could mean:
Attribute may  refer to:
In telecommunications, an audit is one of:
An audit trail (also called audit log) is a security-relevant chronological record, set of records, and/or destination and source of records that provide documentary evidence of the sequence of activities that have affected at any time a specific operation, procedure, or event. Audit records typically result from activities such as financial transactions, scientific research and health care data transactions, or communications by individual people, systems, accounts, or other entities.
An aurora is a natural light display in the sky seen predominantly in the high latitudes.
An authenticator is a way to prove to a computer system that you really are who you are (called authentication). It is either:
An automated information system (AIS) is an assembly of computer hardware, software, firmware, or any combination of these, configured to accomplish specific information-handling operations, such as communication, computation, dissemination, processing, and storage of information. Included are computers, word processing systems, networks, or other electronic information handling systems, and associated equipment.
}}
In telecommunication, an automatic callback is a computer telephony calling feature that permits a user, when encountering a busy condition or other condition where the called individual is unavailable, to instruct the system to retain the called number and to establish the call when there is an available line or when the called number is no longer busy. Automatic callback may be implemented in the terminal, in the telephone exchange, or shared between them.
An automated call distribution system, commonly known as, automatic call distributor (ACD), is a telephony device that answers and distributes incoming calls to a specific group of terminals or agents within an organization. ACDs often use a voice menu to direct callers based on the customer's selection, telephone number, selected incoming line to the system or time of day the call was processed.
Automatic data processing (ADP) may refer to:
Automatic Link Establishment, commonly known as ALE, is the worldwide de facto standard for digitally initiating and sustaining HF radio communications. ALE is a feature in an HF communications radio transceiver system that enables the radio station to make contact, or initiate a circuit, between itself and another HF radio station or network of stations.
Automatic message exchange (AME):  In an adaptive high-frequency (HF) radio network, an automated process allowing the transfer of a message from message injection to addressee reception, without human intervention.  Through the use of machine-addressable transport guidance information, i.
In telecommunication, an automatic redial is a service feature that allows the user to dial, by depressing a single key or a few keys, the most recent telephone number dialed at that instrument.
In telecommunication, automatic sounding is the testing of selected channels for quality by providing a very brief identifying transmission that may be used by other stations to evaluate connectivity, and availability, and to identify known working channels for immediate or later use for communications or calling. They are often used to maintain connectivity in digital communications high frequency radio networks.
In data communications, an automatic switching system is a switching system in which all the operations required to execute the three phases of Information transfer transactions are automatically executed in response to signals from a user end-instrument.
}}
In reliability theory and reliability engineering, the term availability has the following meanings:
Backbone is the Vertebral column of a vertebrate organism.
A back-to-back connection is the direct connection of the output of one device to the input of a similar or related device.
In a data transmission circuit a backward channel is the channel that passes data in a direction opposite to that of its associated forward channel.  The backward channel is usually used for transmission of request, supervisory, acknowledgement, or error-control signals.
In telecommunications and professional audio, a balanced line or balanced signal pair is a transmission line consisting of two conductors of the same type, each of which have equal impedances along their lengths and equal impedances to ground and to other circuits.Young EC, The Penguin Dictionary of Electronics, 1988,  The chief advantage of the balanced line format is good rejection of external noise when fed to a differential amplifier.
In telecommunications, balance return loss is one of two things:
In a hybrid set, hybrid coil, or resistance hybrid, balancing network is a circuit used to match, i.e.
In telecommunication, the term bandwidth compression has the following meanings:
Barrage jamming is radio jamming accomplished by transmitting a band of frequencies that is large with respect to the bandwidth of a single emitter. Barrage jamming may be accomplished by presetting multiple jammers on adjacent frequencies, by using a single wideband transmitter, or by using a transmitter capable of frequency sweep fast enough to appear radiating simultaneously over wide band (e.
Baseband is a signal that has a very narrow and near-zero frequency range, i.e.
In telecommunication, a basic exchange telecommunications radio service (BETRS) is a commercial service that can extend telephone service to rural areas by replacing the local loop with radio communications. In the BETRS, non-government ultra high frequency (UHF) and very high frequency (VHF) common carrier and the private radio service frequencies are shared.
In telecommunications, basic service is:
In telecommunication, a basic service element (BSE) is:
In telecommunication, the term basic serving arrangement (BSA) has the following meanings:
In coding theory, the BCH codes or Bose–Chaudhuri–Hocquenghem codes form a class of cyclic error-correcting codes that are constructed using polynomials over a finite field (also called Galois field). BCH codes were invented in 1959 by French mathematician Alexis Hocquenghem, and independently in 1960 by Raj Bose and D.
The beam diameter or beam width of an electromagnetic beam is the diameter along any specified line that is perpendicular to the beam axis and intersects it. Since beams typically do not have sharp edges, the diameter can be defined in many different ways.
The beam divergence of an electromagnetic beam is an angular measure of the increase in beam diameter or radius with distance from the optical aperture or antenna aperture from which the electromagnetic beam emerges. The term is relevant only in the &quot;far field&quot;, away from any focus of the beam.
Beam steering (also spelled beamsteering or beam-steering) is about changing the direction of the main lobe of a radiation pattern.
In telecommunication, the term beamwidth has the following meanings:
Bel can mean:
Bias is the tendency to have an opinion, or view that is often without considering evidence and other information.
In telecommunication, the term bias distortion has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, bilateral synchronization (or bilateral control) is a synchronization control system between exchanges A and B in which the clock at telephone exchange A controls the data received at exchange B and the clock at exchange B controls the data received at exchange A.
In telecommunication, a bipolar signal is a signal that may assume either of two polarities, neither of which is zero.
In telecommunication, the term bit-count integrity (BCI) has the following meanings:
In digital transmission, the number of bit errors is the number of received bits of a data stream over a communication channel that have been altered due to noise, interference, distortion or bit synchronization errors.
In telecommunications, bit inversion means the changing of the state of a bit to the opposite state, i.e.
In telecommunication, bit pairing is the practice of establishing, within a code set, a number of subsets that have an identical bit representation except for the state of a specified bit.
In telecommunication, bit-sequence independence is a characteristic of some digital data transmission systems that impose no restrictions on, or modification of, the transmitted bit sequence.
In digital transmission, bit slip is the loss or gain of a bit or bits, caused by clock drift – variations in the respective clock rates of the transmitting and receiving devices.
In telecommunication, the term bit-stream transmission has the following meanings:
In data transmission and telecommunication, bit stuffing (also known—uncommonly—as positive justification) is the insertion of non information bits into data. Stuffed bits should not be confused with overhead bits.
Bit-synchronous operation is a type of digital communication in which the data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE), data terminal equipment (DTE), and transmitting circuits are all operated in bit synchronism with a clock signal.
In telecommunication, the term black facsimile transmission has the following meanings:
}}
A blind transmission, in telecommunications, is a transmission made without obtaining a receipt, or acknowledgment of reception, from the intended receiving station. Blind transmissions may occur or be necessary when security constraints, such as radio silence, are imposed, when technical difficulties with a sender's receiver or receiver's transmitter occur, or when lack of time precludes the delay caused by waiting for receipts.
Block may refer to:
In telecommunications, a block check character (BCC) is a character added to a transmission block to facilitate error detection.
Blocking may refer to:
thumb|Tree branches of several sizes.
thumb|250px|An illustration of the polarization of light that is incident on an interface at Brewster's angle.
In telecommunication, a bridge-to-bridge station is a ship station operating in the port operations service in which messages are restricted to navigational communications and which is capable of operation from the ship's navigational bridge or, in the case of a dredge, from its main control station, operating on a frequency or frequencies in the 156-162 MHz band.
Bridging loss is the loss, at a given frequency, that results when an impedance is connected across a transmission line. It is expressed as the ratio, in decibels, of the signal power delivered to a given point in a system downstream from the bridging point prior to bridging, to the signal power delivered to the given point after bridging.
Brightness is an attribute of visual perception in which a source appears to be radiating or reflecting light.Merriam-Webster.
Buffer may refer to:
In a packet switched network, burst switching is a capability in which each network switch extracts routing instructions from an incoming packet header to establish and maintain the appropriate switch connection for the duration of the packet, following which the connection is automatically released.
In telecommunication, a burst transmission or data burst is the broadcast of a relatively high-bandwidth transmission over a short period.
A busy signal is information communicated to a user or apparatus attempting a connection, indicating the requested connection cannot be completed.
In a public switched telephone network, busy verification  is a network-provided service feature that permits an attendant to verify the busy or idle state of station lines and to break into the conversation.
Bypass may refer to:
In telecommunication, a cable television relay service station (CARS) is a fixed or mobile station used for the transmission of television and related audio signals, signals of standard and FM broadcast stations, signals of instructional television fixed stations, and cablecasting from the point of reception to a terminal point from which the signals are distributed to the public.
Call  may refer to:
}}
In telecommunications, the term call duration has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a called-party camp-on is a communication system service feature that enables the system to complete an access attempt in spite of issuance of a user blocking signal. This is most often found in a switchboard system at a company.
In telecommunication, a calling-party camp-on is a service feature that enables the telephone exchange to complete an access attempt in spite of temporary unavailability of system transmission or switching facilities required to establish the requested access.
In telecommunication, the term call processing has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a call-second is a unit used to measure communications traffic density.
In telecommunication, the term call set-up time has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, call-sign allocation plan is the table of allocation of international call sign series contained in the current edition of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Radio Regulations.
In telecommunication, call tracing is a procedure that permits an entitled user to be informed about the routing of data for an established connection, identifying the entire route from the origin to the destination.
In telecommunication, the term camp-on busy signal has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term cancel character has the following meanings:
Capacitive coupling is the transfer of energy within an electrical network or between distant networks by means of displacement current between circuit(s)  nodes, induced by the electric field. This coupling can have an intentional or accidental effect.
In telecommunications, the capture effect, or FM capture effect, is a phenomenon associated with FM reception in which only the stronger of two signals at, or near, the same frequency or channel will be demodulated.
Carrier may refer to:
Carrier-sense multiple access with collision avoidance (CSMA/CA) in computer networking, is a network multiple access method in which carrier sensing is used, but nodes attempt to avoid collisions by transmitting only when the channel is sensed to be &quot;idle&quot;. When they do transmit, nodes transmit their packet data in its entirety.
thumb|right|440px|Simplified algorithm of CSMA/CD. Station checks whether another station is transmitting.
In telecommunication, the term carrier shift has the following meanings:
A carrier system is a telecommunications system that transmits information, such as the voice signals of a telephone call and the video signals of television, by modulation of one or multiple carrier signals above the principal voice frequency or data rate.Western Electric (1969) Fundamentals of Telephone Communication Systems, p.
In telecommunication, Carson's bandwidth rule defines the approximate bandwidth requirements of communications system components for a carrier signal that is frequency modulated by a continuous or broad spectrum of frequencies rather than a single frequency. Carson's rule does not apply well when the modulating signal contains discontinuities, such as a square wave.
thumb|Types of parabolic antenna
In computer networking, cell relay refers to a method of statistically multiplexing small fixed-length packets, called &quot;cells&quot;, to transport data between computers or kinds of network equipment.  It is an unreliable, connection-oriented packet switched data communications protocol.
A caesium standard or caesium atomic clock is a primary frequency standard in which electronic transitions between the two hyperfine ground states of caesium-133 atoms are used to control the output frequency. The first caesium clock was built by Louis Essen in 1955 at the National Physical Laboratory in the UK.
Channel or channels may refer to:
In telecommunications, the term channel noise level has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, channel reliability (ChR) is the percentage of time a channel was available for use in a specified period of scheduled availability.
In telecommunications, a channel service unit (CSU) is a line Bridging device for use with T-carrier that:
Character-count integrity is a telecommunications term for the ability of a certain link to preserve the number of characters in a message (per unit time, in the case of a user-to-user connection). Character-count integrity is not the same as character integrity, which requires that the characters delivered be, in fact, exactly the same as they were originated.
Character interval: In a communications system, the total number of unit intervals required to transmit any given character, including synchronizing, information, error checking, or control characters, but not including signals that are not associated with individual characters.
The characteristic impedance or surge impedance (usually written Z0) of a uniform transmission line is the ratio of the amplitudes of voltage and current of a single wave propagating along the line; that is, a wave travelling in one direction in the absence of reflections in the other direction. Characteristic impedance is determined by the geometry and materials of the transmission line and, for a uniform line, is not dependent on its length.
Chip or chips may refer to:
Chirping may refer to:
Circuit may refer to:
Circuit noise level:  At any point in a transmission system, the ratio of the circuit noise at that point to an arbitrary level chosen as a reference.
Circuit reliability (also time availability) (CiR) is the percentage of time an electronic circuit was available for use in a specified period of scheduled availability.  Circuit reliability is given by where T o is the circuit total outage time, Ts is the circuit total scheduled time, and T a is the circuit total available time.
In telecommunication, circuit restoration is the process by which a communications circuit is established between two users after disruption or loss of the original circuit.  The loss may be widespread due to a natural disaster like an ice storm or hurricane, or local by being cut underground in construction or damaged in a thunderstorm or car accident.
Circuit switching is a method of implementing a telecommunications network in which two network nodes establish a dedicated communications channel (circuit) through the network before the nodes may communicate.  The circuit guarantees the full bandwidth of the channel and remains connected for the duration of the communication session.
thumb|305px|The [[electric field vectors of a traveling circularly polarized electromagnetic wave.  This wave is right-circularly-polarized, since the direction of rotation of the vector is related by the right hand rule to the direction the wave is moving.
thumb|[[ANSI and IEC standard schematic symbol for a circulator (with each waveguide or transmission line port drawn as a single line, rather than as a pair of conductors)]]A circulator is a passive non-reciprocal three- or four-port device, in which a microwave or radio frequency signal entering any port is transmitted to the next port in rotation (only). A port in this context is a point where an external waveguide or transmission line (such as a microstrip line or a coaxial cable), connects to the device.
Cladding is an outer layer of material covering another. It may refer to the following:
Clearing  may refer to:
Thomas Latimer (Peter) Cleave (1906–1983) was a surgeon captain who researched the negative health effects of consuming refined carbohydrate (notably sugar and white flour) which would not have been available during early human evolution. Known as `Peter' to his friends and colleagues, Cleave was born in Exeter in 1906, and educated at Clifton College.
Clipping may refer to:
thumb|The &quot;CC in a TV&quot; symbol was created at [[WGBH-TV|WGBH.]]
A closed-loop transfer function in control theory is a mathematical expression (algorithm) describing the net result of the effects of a closed (feedback) loop on the input signal to the circuits enclosed by the loop.
In telecommunication, the term code conversion has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a coded set is a set of elements onto which another set of elements has been mapped according to a code.
In communication, a code word is an element of a standardized code or protocol.  Each code word is assembled in accordance with the specific rules of the code and assigned a unique meaning.
Coding may refer to:
In physics, coherence length is the propagation distance over which a coherent wave (e.g.
For an electromagnetic wave, the coherence time is the time over which a propagating wave (especially a laser or maser beam) may be considered coherent. In other words, it is the time interval within which its phase is, on average, predictable.
Collective routing is routing in which a switching center automatically delivers messages to a specified list of destinations.
In telecommunications, a collinear antenna array is an array of dipole antennas mounted in such a manner that the corresponding elements of each antenna are parallel and collinear, that is they are located along a common line or axis.
A collision is an event in which two or more bodies exert forces on each other for a relatively short time. Although the most common colloquial use of the word &quot;collision&quot; refers to incidents in which two or more objects collide with great force, the scientific use of the word &quot;collision&quot; implies nothing about the magnitude of the force.
}}
In telecommunication, a combined distribution frame (CDF) is a distribution frame that combines the functions of main and intermediate distribution frames and contains both vertical and horizontal terminating blocks.
A comma-free code is block code in which no concatenation of two code words contains a valid code word that overlaps both.
In telecommunication, a common battery is a single electrical power source used to energize more than one circuit, electronic component, equipment, or system.
In computing, booting (or booting up) is the initialization of a computerized system.  The system can be a computer or a computer appliance.
A common carrier in common law countries (corresponding to a public carrier in civil law systems,Encyclopædia Britannica CD 2000 &quot;Civil-law public carrier&quot; from &quot;carriage of goods&quot; usually called simply a carrier) is a person or company that transports goods or people for any person or company and that is responsible for any possible loss of the goods during transport.Longman Business English Dictionary A common carrier offers its services to the general public under license or authority provided by a regulatory body.
In telecommunication, a common control is an automatic telephone exchange arrangement in which the control equipment necessary for the establishment of connections is shared by being associated with a given call only during the period required to accomplish the control function for the given call.  The first examples deployed on a major scale were the Director telephone system in London and the panel switch in the Bell System.
The Common Management Information Service (CMIS) is the service interface specified in ITU-T Recommendation X.710, ISO/IEC International Standard 9595 that is employed by OSI network elements for network management.
In telecommunication, the term common-mode interference has the following meanings:
In telecommunications, communications blackouts are
In telecommunication, the term communications center has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term communications deception has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, communications-electronics (C-E) is the specialized field concerned with the use of electronic devices and systems for the acquisition or acceptance, processing, storage, display, analysis, protection, disposition, and transfer of information.
In telecommunications, communications protection is the application of communications security (COMSEC) measures to telecommunications systems in order to: (a) deny unauthorized access to sensitive unclassified information of value, (b) prevent disruption of telecommunications services, or (c) ensure the authenticity of information handled by telecommunications systems.
Communications security is the discipline of preventing unauthorized interceptors from accessing telecommunications in an intelligible form, while still delivering content to the intended recipients.
In telecommunication, communications survivability is the ability of communications systems to continue to operate effectively under adverse conditions, though portions of the system may be damaged or destroyed.
thumb|400px|Communication .system
right|thumb|Original signal
In telecommunication, a comparably efficient interconnection (CEI) is an equal-access concept developed by the FCC stating that, &quot;. .
In electronics, a comparator is a device that compares two voltages or currents and outputs a digital signal indicating which is larger.  It has two analog input terminals V_+\, and V_-\, and one binary digital output V_o\,.
Compatibility may refer to:
A Compatible sideband transmission, also known as amplitude modulation equivalent (AME) or Single sideband-reduced carrier (SSB-RC), is a type of single sideband RF modulation in which the carrier is deliberately reinserted at a lower level after its normal suppression to permit reception by conventional AM receivers.
In telecommunication, a complementary network service (CNS) is a means for an enhanced-service provider customer to connect to a network and to the enhanced service provider.
Component may refer to:
To compromise is to make a deal between different parties where each party gives up part of their demand. In arguments, compromise is a concept of finding [through communication], through a mutual [[acceptance of terms—often involving variations from an original goal or desires.
Computer conferencing may refer to:
In the evolution of modern telecommunications systems there was a requirement to connect large numbers of low-speed access devices with large telephone company 'central office' switches over common paths. During the first generations of digital networks, analog signals were digitized on line cards attached to the telephone exchange switches.
The concentricity error of an optical fiber is the distance between the center of the two concentric circles that specify the cladding diameter and the center of the two concentric circles that specify the core diameter.
In telecommunication, the term conditioning equipment has the following meanings:
In a communications network, a conference operation is an operation that allows a call to be established among three or more stations in such a manner that each of the stations is able to communicate directly with all the other stations. In radio systems, the stations may receive simultaneously, but must transmit one at a time.
Configuration management (CM) is a systems engineering process for establishing and maintaining consistency of a product's performance, functional, and physical attributes with its requirements, design, and operational information throughout its life.
Congestion may refer to:
Connectionless communication, often referred to as CL-mode communication,Information Processing Systems - Open Systems Interconnection, &quot;Transport Service Definition - Addendum 1: Connectionless-mode Transmission&quot;, International Organization for Standardization, International Standard 8072/AD 1, December 1986. is a data transmission method used in packet switching networks in which each data unit is individually addressed and routed based on information carried in each unit, rather than in the setup information of a prearranged, fixed data channel as in connection-oriented communication.
In telecommunication, the term connections per circuit hour (CCH) has the following meanings:
Connectivity exchange (CONEX):  In an adaptive or manually operated high-frequency (HF) radio network, the automatic or manual exchange of information concerning routes to stations that are not directly reachable by the exchange originator.
Contention may refer to:
In telecommunication, continuous operation is an operation in which certain components, such as nodes, facilities, circuits, or equipment, are in an operational state at all times. Continuous operation usually requires that there be fully redundant configuration, or at least a sufficient X out of Y degree of redundancy for compatible equipment, where X is the number of spare components and Y is the number of operational components.
Contrast may refer to:
In telecommunication, control communications is the branch of technology devoted to the design, development, and application of communications facilities used specifically for control purposes, such as for controlling (a) industrial processes, (b) movement of resources, (c) electric power generation, distribution, and utilization, (d) communications networks, and (e) transportation systems.
In telecommunication, a controlled area is an area in which uncontrolled movement will not result in compromise of classified information, that is designed to provide administrative control and safety, or that serves as a buffer for controlling access to limited-access areas. It can also refer to an area to which security controls have been applied to protect an information-processing system's equipment and wirelines, equivalent to that required for the information transmitted through the system.
In telecommunication, a control operation (control function) is an operation that affects the recording, processing, transmission, or interpretation of data.
In telecommunication, a convolutional code is a type of error-correcting code that generates parity symbols via the sliding application of a boolean polynomial function to a data stream.  The sliding application represents the 'convolution' of the encoder over the data, which gives rise to the term 'convolutional coding.
In facsimile systems, the cooperation factor is the product of the total image scanning length and the scanning density, given by CF = L σ, where L is the scanning line length and σ is the scanning line density, both in compatible units.
Copy may refer to:
In telecommunication, a cord circuit is a switchboard circuit in which a plug-terminated cord is used to establish connections manually between user lines or between trunks and user lines. A number of cord circuits are furnished as part of the switchboard position equipment.
Core may refer to:
A corner reflector is a retroreflector consisting of three mutually perpendicular, intersecting flat surfaces, which reflects waves back directly towards the source, but translated.   The three intersecting surfaces often have square shapes.
Cosmic noise and galactic radio noise is random noise that originates outside the Earth's atmosphere. It can be detected and heard on radio receivers.
A Costas loop is a phase-locked loop (PLL) based circuit which is used for carrier frequency recovery from suppressed-carrier modulation signals (e.g.
frame|Rotating coupling
Cover or covers may refer to:
Critical angle can refer to:
In telecommunication, the term critical frequency has the following meanings:
Crosstalk refers to any signal or circuit unintentionally affecting another signal or circuit.
thumb|right|250px|CRYPTO 2003 conference reception.
In telecommunication, a cryptochannel is a complete system of crypto-communications between two or more holders. It includes: (a) the cryptographic aids prescribed; (b) the holders thereof; (c) the indicators or other means of identification; (d) the area or areas in which effective; (e) the special purpose, if any, for which provided; and (f) pertinent notes as to distribution, usage, etc.
A crystal oscillator is an electronic oscillator circuit that uses the mechanical resonance of a vibrating crystal of piezoelectric material to create an electrical signal with a precise frequency.The term crystal oscillator refers to the circuit, not the resonator:   This frequency is commonly used to keep track of time, as in quartz wristwatches, to provide a stable clock signal for digital integrated circuits, and to stabilize frequencies for radio transmitters and receivers.
Curve-fitting compaction is  data compaction accomplished by replacing data to be stored or transmitted with an analytical expression.
}}
Customer-premises equipment or customer-provided equipment (CPE) is any terminal and associated equipment located at a subscriber's premises and connected with a carrier's telecommunication channel at the demarcation point (&quot;demarc&quot;). The demarc is a point established in a building or complex to separate customer equipment from the equipment located in either the distribution infrastructure or central office of the communications service provider.
In telecommunication, a customer service unit (CSU) is a device that provides an accessing arrangement at a user location to either switched or point-to-point, data-conditioned circuits at a specifically established data signaling rate.
In telecommunications, a cutback technique is a destructive technique for determining certain optical fiber transmission characteristics, such as attenuation and bandwidth.
In physics and electrical engineering, a cutoff frequency, corner frequency, or break frequency is a boundary in a system's frequency response at which energy flowing through the system begins to be reduced (attenuated or reflected) rather than passing through.
The term data access arrangement (DAA) has the following meanings:
In telecommunications, a data bank is a repository of information on one or more subjects that is organized in a way that facilitates local or remote information retrieval. A data bank may be either centralized or decentralized.
In telecommunication, data compaction is the reduction of the number of data elements, bandwidth, cost, and time for the generation, transmission, and storage of data without loss of information by eliminating unnecessary redundancy, removing irrelevancy, or using special coding.
In metadata, the term data element is an atomic unit of data that has precise meaning or precise semantics. A data element has:
In telecommunications, a data forwarder is a device that
A datagram is a basic transfer unit associated with a packet-switched network. Datagrams are typically structured in header and payload sections.
Data integrity is the maintenance of, and the assurance of the accuracy and consistency of, data over its entire life-cycle, and is a critical aspect to the design, implementation and usage of any system which stores, processes, or retrieves data. The term data integrity is broad in scope and may have widely different meanings depending on the specific context even under the same general umbrella of computing.
In telecommunication a data link is the means of connecting one location to another for the purpose of transmitting and receiving digital information. It can also refer to a set of electronics assemblies, consisting of a transmitter and a receiver (two pieces of data terminal equipment) and the interconnecting data telecommunication circuit.
A data service unit, sometimes called a digital service unit, is a piece of telecommunications circuit terminating equipment that transforms digital data between telephone company lines and local equipment. The device converts bipolar digital signals coming ultimately from a digital circuit and directly from a Channel service unit (CSU), into a format (e.
In telecommunication, data signaling rate (DSR), also known as gross bit rate, is the aggregate rate at which data pass a point in the transmission path of a data transmission system.
In telecommunication, a data transmission circuit is the transmission media and the intervening equipment used for the data transfer between data terminal equipments (DTEs).
In communications messages, a date-time group (DTG) is a set of characters, usually in a prescribed format, used to express the year, the month, the day of the month, the hour of the day, the minute of the hour, and the time zone, if different from Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). The order in which these elements are presented may vary.
DB (until 1947 known as Deutsch-Bonnet) was a French automobile maker between 1938 and 1961, based in Champigny-sur-Marne near Paris. The firm was founded by Charles Deutsch and René Bonnet, an offshoot of the Deutsch family's existing coachbuilding shop which had been taken over by Bonnet in 1932.
A weighting filter is used to emphasize or suppress some aspects of a phenomenon compared to others, for measurement or other purposes.
dBm (sometimes dBmW or decibel-milliwatts) is an abbreviation for the power ratio in decibels (dB) of the measured power referenced to one milliwatt (mW). It is used in radio, microwave and fiber-optical networks as a convenient measure of absolute power because of its capability to express both very large and very small values in a short form.
The symbol dBrn or dB(rn) is an abbreviation for decibels above reference noise.
A data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE) is a device that sits between the data terminal equipment (DTE) and a data transmission circuit. It is also called data communication(s) equipment and data carrier equipment.
Degradation may refer to:
The degree of isochronous distortion, in data transmission, is the ratio of the absolute value of the maximum measured difference between the actual and the theoretical intervals separating any two significant instants of modulation (or demodulation), to the unit interval. These instants are not necessarily consecutive.
In telecommunication, the term degree of start-stop distortion has the following meanings:
Delay may refer to:
In telecommunications, delay encoding is the encoding of binary data to form a two-level signal where (a) a &quot;0&quot; causes no change of signal level unless it is followed by another &quot;0&quot; in which case a transition to the other level takes place at the end of the first bit period; and (b) a &quot;1&quot; causes a transition from one level to the other in the middle of the bit period.
Delay line may refer to:
thumb|400px|right|Principle of the delta PWM. The output signal (blue) is compared with the limits (green).
In telecommunication, a demand assignment is a method which several users share access to a communications channel on a real-time basis, i.e.
In telecommunication, electronics and the electrical power industry, the term demand factor is used to refer to the fractional amount of some quantity being used relative to the maximum amount that could be used by the same system. The demand factor is always less than or equal to one.
In telecommunication, the term demand load can have the following meanings:
In telecommunication, desensitation is the reduction of desired signal gain as a result of receiver reaction to an undesired signal.
Design objective (DO):  In communications systems, a desired performance characteristic for communications circuits and equipment that is based on engineering analyses, but (a) is not considered feasible to mandate in a standard, or (b) has not been tested.
A detector is a device capable of registering a specific substance or physical phenomenon.
In telecommunications, deterministic routing is the advance determination of the routes between given pairs of nodes. Examples:
thumb|right|The [[Western Electric model 500 rotary dial telephone was a pulse-dialing instrument.]]
A dielectric (or dielectric material) is an electrical insulator that can be polarized by an applied electric field. When a dielectric is placed in an electric field, electric charges do not flow through the material as they do in an electrical conductor, but only slightly shift from their average equilibrium positions causing dielectric polarization.
In physics, the term dielectric strength has the following meanings:
Differential Manchester encoding is a line code in which data and clock signals are combined to form a single 2-level self-synchronizing data stream. In various specific applications, this line code is also called by various other names, including Biphase Mark Code (BMC), Frequency Modulation (FM), F2F (frequency/double frequency), Aiken Biphase, and Conditioned diphase.
thumb|right|300px|A very large reflecting diffraction grating
In signal processing, a digital filter is a system that performs mathematical operations on a sampled, discrete-time signal to reduce or enhance certain aspects of that signal.  This is in contrast to the other major type of electronic filter, the analog filter, which is an electronic circuit operating on continuous-time analog signals.
In digital telephony, the digital milliwatt is a standard test signal that serves as a reference for analog signal levels in the telecommunications network.Anttalainen T.
In telecommunications, a digital multiplex hierarchy is a hierarchy consisting of an ordered repetition of tandem digital multiplexers that produce signals of successively higher data rates at each level of the hierarchy.
Digital Signal 0 (DS0) is a basic digital signaling rate of 64 kilobits per second (kbit/s), corresponding to the capacity of one analog voice-frequency-equivalent channel.Definition from Federal Standard 1037C The DS0 rate, and its equivalents E0 and T0, form the basis for the digital multiplex transmission hierarchy in telecommunications systems used in North America, Europe, Japan, and the rest of the world, for both the early plesiochronous systems such as T-carrier and for modern synchronous systems such as SDH/SONET.
Digital subscriber line (DSL; originally digital subscriber loop) is a family of technologies that are used to transmit digital data over telephone lines. In telecommunications marketing, the term DSL is widely understood to mean asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL), the most commonly installed DSL technology, for Internet access.
In telecommunication, a digital transmission group is a group of digitized voice or data channels or both with bit streams that are combined into a single digital bit stream for transmission over communications media.
Digroup is an abbreviation for digital group. In telephony, a basic digital multiplexing group.
Direct access may refer to:
Direct connect may refer to:
Direct distance dialing (DDD) is a telecommunication service feature in which a caller may, without operator assistance, call any other user outside the local calling area. Direct dialing by subscribers typically requires extra digits to be dialed as prefixes than for dialing within the local area or within an area code.
In telecommunications, direct-sequence spread spectrum (DSSS) is a spread spectrum modulation technique used to reduce overall signal interference. The spreading of this signal makes the resulting wideband  channel more noisy, allowing for greater resistance to unintentional and intentional interference.
In telecommunication, a disengagement originator is the user or execution unit that initiates a disengagement attempt. The disengagement originator may be the originating user, the destination user, or the communications system.
A dispersion-limited operation is an operation of a communications link in which signal waveform degradation attributable to the dispersive effects of the communications medium is the dominant mechanism that limits link performance. The dispersion is the filter-like effect which a link has on the signal, due to the different propagation speeds of the eigenmodes of the link.
Distortion is the alteration of the original shape (or other characteristic) of something.  In communications and electronics it means the alteration of the waveform of an information-bearing signal, such as an audio signal representing sound or a video signal representing images, in an electronic device or communication channel.
In telecommunication, distortion-limited operation is the condition prevailing when distortion of a received signal, rather than its attenuated amplitude (or power), limits performance under stated operational conditions and limits.
}}
In telecommunication, a distributed-queue dual-bus network (DQDB) is a distributed multi-access network that (a) supports integrated communications using a dual bus and distributed queuing, (b) provides access to local or metropolitan area networks, and (c) supports connectionless data transfer, connection-oriented data transfer, and isochronous communications, such as voice communications.
Distributed switching is an architecture in which multiple processor-controlled switching units are distributed.  There is often a hierarchy of switching elements, with a centralized host switch and with remote switches located close to concentrations of users.
In telecommunication, a disturbance voltage is an unwanted voltage induced in a system by natural or man-made sources.
In telecommunication, diurnal phase shift is the phase shift of electromagnetic signals associated with daily changes in the ionosphere. The major changes usually occur during the period of time when sunrise or sunset is present at critical points along the path.
thumb|right|The master atomic clock ensemble at the [[United States Naval Observatory|U.S.
For two connected exchanges in a communications network, a double-ended synchronization (also called double-ended control) is a synchronization control scheme in which the phase error signals used to control the clock at one telephone exchange are derived by comparison with the phase of the incoming digital signal and the phase of the internal clocks at both exchanges.
Double-sideband reduced carrier transmission (DSB-RC):  transmission in which (a) the frequencies produced by amplitude modulation are symmetrically spaced above and below the carrier and (b) the carrier level is reduced for transmission at a fixed level below that which is provided to the modulator.
Double-sideband suppressed-carrier transmission (DSB-SC) is  transmission in which frequencies produced by amplitude modulation  (AM) are symmetrically spaced above and below the carrier frequency and the carrier level is reduced to the lowest practical level, ideally being completely suppressed.
==Geography ==
thumb|Water drops falling from a tap.
In a multichannel transmission system, a drop and insert is a process that diverts (drops) a portion of the multiplexed aggregate signal at an intermediate point, and introduces (inserts) a different signal for subsequent transmission in the same position, e.g.
Dropout may refer to:
DTE may refer to:
In telecommunication, the term dual access has the following meanings:
thumb|upright=1.2|Dual in-line sockets for 16-, 14-, and 8-pin packages
A duct may refer to:
A duplexer is an electronic device that allows bi-directional (duplex) communication over a single path.  In radar and radio communications systems, it isolates the receiver from the transmitter while permitting them to share a common antenna.
A duty cycle is the fraction of one period in which a signal or system is active. Duty cycle is commonly expressed as a percentage or a ratio.
Dynamic range, abbreviated DR, DNR,ISSCC Glossary http://ieeexplore.ieee.
.
In telecommunication, effective data transfer rate is the average number of units of data, such as bits, characters, blocks, or frames, transferred per unit time from a source and accepted as valid by a sink.
In telecommunication, the effective height of an antenna is the height of the antenna's center of radiation above the ground. It is defined as the ratio of the induced voltage to the incident field .
In telecommunications, effective input noise temperature is the source noise temperature in a two-port network or amplifier that will result in the same output noise power, when connected to a noise-free network or amplifier, as that of the actual network or amplifier connected to a noise-free source.  If F is the noise figure numeric and 290 K the standard noise temperature, then the effective noise temperature is given by T n = 290(F-1).
For an optical fiber, the effective mode volume is the square of the product of the diameter of the near-field pattern and the sine of the radiation angle of the far-field pattern. The diameter of the near-field radiation pattern is defined here as the full width at half maximum and the radiation angle at half maximum radiant intensity.
In telecommunications, effective transmission rate (average rate of transmission, effective speed of transmission) is the rate at which information is processed by a transmission facility.
Efficiency factor is a ratio of some measure of performance to an expected value.
In telecommunications and electrical engineering, electrical length (or phase length)
An electric field is a vector field that associates to each point in space the Coulomb force that would be experienced per unit of electric charge, by an infinitesimal test charge at that point. Electric fields are created by electric charges and can be induced by time-varying magnetic fields.
Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) is the branch of electrical engineering concerned with the unintentional generation, propagation and reception of electromagnetic energy which may cause unwanted effects such as electromagnetic interference (EMI) or even physical damage in operational equipment. The goal of EMC is the correct operation of different equipment in a common electromagnetic environment.
In telecommunication, the term electromagnetic environment (EME) has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, electromagnetic interference control (EMI) is the control of radiated and conducted energy such that emissions that are unnecessary for system, subsystem, or equipment operation are reduced, minimized, or eliminated.
A nuclear electromagnetic pulse (commonly abbreviated as nuclear EMP, pronounced , or NEMP) is a characteristic burst of electromagnetic radiation created by nuclear explosions. The resulting rapidly changing electric and magnetic fields may couple with electrical and electronic systems to produce damaging current and voltage surges.
Electromagnetic radiation can be classified into two types: ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation, based on the capability of a single photon with more than 10 eV energy to ionize oxygen or break chemical bonds. Ultraviolet and higher frequencies, such as X-rays or gamma rays are ionizing, and these pose their own special hazards: see radiation and radiation poisoning.
In telecommunication, electromagnetic survivability is the ability of a system, subsystem, or equipment to resume functioning without evidence of degradation following temporary exposure to an adverse electromagnetic environment.
In telecommunication, the term electronic deception means the deliberate radiation, reradiation, alteration, suppression, absorption, denial, enhancement, or reflection of electromagnetic energy in a manner intended to convey misleading information and to deny valid information to an enemy or to enemy electronics-dependent weapons.
In telecommunications, an electronic switching system (ESS) is a telephone switch that uses digital electronics and computerized control to interconnect telephone circuits for the purpose of establishing telephone calls.
In military telecommunications, the terms Electronic Support (ES) or Electronic Support Measures (ESM) describe the division of electronic warfare involving actions taken under direct control of an operational commander to detect, intercept, identify, locate, record, and/or analyze sources of radiated electromagnetic energy for the purposes of immediate threat recognition (such as warning that fire control RADAR has locked on a combat vehicle, ship, or aircraft) or longer-term operational planning.Polmar, Norman &quot;The U.
An electro-optic effect is a change in the optical properties of a material in response to an electric field that varies slowly compared with the frequency of light.  The term encompasses a number of distinct phenomena, which can be subdivided into
Electro-optic modulator (EOM) is an optical device in which a signal-controlled element exhibiting the electro-optic effect is used to modulate a beam of light. The modulation may be imposed on the phase, frequency, amplitude, or polarization of the beam.
Electro-optics is a branch of electrical engineering and material physics involving components, devices (e.g.
In electrodynamics, elliptical polarization is the polarization of electromagnetic radiation such that the tip of the electric field vector describes an ellipse in any fixed plane intersecting, and normal to, the direction of propagation. An elliptically polarized wave may be resolved into two linearly polarized waves in phase quadrature, with their polarization planes at right angles to each other.
Typically, prior to some process, such as transmission over cable, or recording to phonograph record or tape, the input frequency range most susceptible to noise is boosted. This is referred to as &quot;pre-emphasis&quot;&quot;pre-&quot; the process the signal will undergo.
Encode or encoder may refer to:
In start-stop teletypewriter operation, end distortion refers to the shifting of the end of all marking pulses, except the stop pulse, from their proper positions in relation to the beginning of the next start pulse.
In telecommunication, an End-of-Transmission character (EOT) is a transmission control character. Its intended use is to indicate the conclusion of a transmission that may have included one or more texts and any associated message headings.
In telecommunication, endurability is the property of a system, subsystem, equipment, or process that enables it to continue to function within specified performance limits for an extended period of time, usually months, despite a severe natural or man-made disturbance, such as a nuclear attack, or a loss of external logistic or utility support.
Enhanced service is service offered over commercial carrier transmission facilities used in interstate communications, that employs computer processing applications that act on the format, content, code, protocol, or similar aspects of the subscriber's transmitted information; provides the subscriber with additional, different, or restructured information; or involves subscriber interaction with stored information.
In the fields of chronology and periodization, an epoch is an instant in time chosen as the origin of a particular era. The &quot;epoch&quot; then serves as a reference point from which time is measured.
In telecommunication, an equivalent noise resistance is a quantitative representation in resistance units of the spectral density of a noise-voltage generator, given by
In telecommunication, equivalent pulse code modulation noise (PCM) is the amount of thermal noise power on a frequency-division multiplexing (FDM) or wire channel necessary to approximate the same judgment of speech quality created by quantizing noise in a PCM channel.
thumb|[[Montparnasse derailment, France, 1895 ]]
In telecommunication, a burst error or error burst is a contiguous sequence of symbols, received over a data transmission channel, such that the first and last symbols are in error and there exists no contiguous subsequence of m correctly received symbols within the error burst.
In computing and telecommunication, an escape character is a character which invokes an alternative interpretation on subsequent characters in a character sequence. An escape character is a particular case of metacharacters.
In telecommunication, an essential service (critical service) is a network-provided service feature in which a priority dial tone is furnished. Essential service is typically provided to fewer than 10% of network users, and recommended for use in conjunction with NS/EP telecommunications services.
Exchange may refer to:
In telecommunication, an exempted addressee is an organization, activity, or person included in the collective address group of a message and deemed by the message originator as having no need for the information in the message.
In telecommunications, extended superframe (ESF) is a T1 framing standard.
In telecommunications, extinction ratio (re) is the ratio of two optical power levels of a digital signal generated by an optical source, e.g.
In telecommunication, an eye pattern, also known as an eye diagram, is an oscilloscope display in which a digital signal from a receiver is repetitively sampled and applied to the vertical input, while the data rate is used to trigger the horizontal sweep. It is so called because, for several types of coding, the pattern looks like a series of eyes between a pair of rails.
In telecommunications, a facility is defined by Federal Standard 1037C as:
In telecommunication, the term facsimile converter has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term fade margin (fading margin) has the following meanings:
In telecommunications, a fading distribution is the probability distribution of the value of signal fading, relative to a specified reference level.
A fail-safe in engineering is a design feature or practice that in the event of a specific type of failure, inherently responds in a way that will cause no or minimal harm to other equipment, the environment or to people.
In electronics, fall time (pulse decay time) \scriptstyle t_f\, is the time taken for the amplitude of a pulse to decrease (fall) from a specified value (usually 90% of the peak value exclusive of overshoot or undershoot) to another specified value (usually 10% of the maximum value exclusive of overshoot or undershoot).
In telecommunications, fast packet switching is a variant of packet switching that increases the throughput by eliminating overhead associated with flow control and error correction functions, which are either offloaded to upper layer networking protocols or removed altogether. ATM and Frame Relay are two major implementations of fast packet switching.
Fault may refer to:
In network management, fault management is the set of functions that detect, isolate, and correct malfunctions in a telecommunications network, compensate for environmental changes, and include maintaining and examining error logs, accepting and acting on error detection notifications, tracing and identifying faults, carrying out sequences of diagnostics tests, correcting faults, reporting error conditions, and localizing and tracing faults by examining and manipulating database information.
The FCC, or  Federal Communications Commission, is an independent agency of the United States government.
In telecommunication, FCC registration program is the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) program and associated directives intended to assure that all connected terminal equipment and protective circuitry will not harm the public switched telephone network or certain private line services.
Feed or The Feed may refer to:
An optical amplifier is a device that amplifies an optical signal directly, without the need to first convert it to an electrical signal. An optical amplifier may be thought of as a laser without an optical cavity, or one in which feedback from the cavity is suppressed.
thumb|Dual-attach FDDI board
In physics, field strength means the magnitude of a vector-valued field (e.g.
In computing, a file server (or fileserver) is a computer attached to a network that provides a location for shared disk access, i.e.
In telecommunication, a filled cable is a cable that has a non-hygroscopic material, usually a gel called icky-pick, inside the jacket or sheath.
In electronic systems and computing, firmware}} is a type of computer program that provides control, monitoring and data manipulation of engineered products and systems. Typical examples of devices containing firmware are embedded systems, consumer appliances, computers, computer peripherals, and others.
Fixed access:  In personal communications service (PCS), terminal access to a network in which there is a set relationship between a terminal and the access interface. A single &quot;identifier&quot; serves for both the access interface and the terminal.
Flag sequence:  In data transmission or processing, a sequence of bits used to delimit, i.e.
In a noise-measuring set, flat weighting is a noise weighting based on an amplitude-frequency characteristic that is flat over a frequency range that must be stated.
In a telephone network, flood search routing is non-deterministic routing in which a dialed number received at a switch is transmitted to all switches, i.e.
In electronics and communication, flutter is the rapid variation of signal parameters, such as amplitude, phase, and frequency.  Examples of electronic flutter are:
The flywheel effect is the continuation of oscillations in an oscillator circuit after the control stimulus has been removed. This is usually caused by interacting inductive and capacitive elements in the oscillator.
Foreign exchange service may refer to:
In telecommunication, the term foreign instrumentation signals intelligence (FISINT) has the following meanings:
Forward echo:  In a transmission line, a reflection propagating in the same direction as the original wave and consisting of energy reflected back by one discontinuity and then forward again by another discontinuity.  Forward echoes can be supported by reflections caused by splices or other discontinuities in the transmission medium (e.
In telecommunication, information theory, and coding theory, forward error correction  (FEC) or channel coding is a technique used for controlling errors in data transmission over unreliable or noisy communication channels.
In telecommunication and astronomy, forward scatter is the deflection—by diffraction, nonhomogeneous refraction, or nonspecular reflection by particulate matter of dimensions that are large with respect to the wavelength in question but small with respect to the beam diameter—of a portion of an incident electromagnetic wave, in such a manner that the energy so deflected propagates in a direction that is within 90° of the direction of propagation of the incident wave (i.e.
Frequency of optimum transmission (FOT), in the transmission of radio waves via ionospheric reflection, is the highest effective (i.e.
In telecommunication, a four-wire circuit is a two-way circuit using two paths so arranged that the respective signals are transmitted in one direction only by one path and in the other direction by the other path.   Late in the 20th century, almost all connections between telephone exchanges were four-wire circuits, while conventional phone lines into residences and businesses were two-wire circuits.
A four-wire terminating set (4WTS) is a balanced transformer used to perform a conversion between four-wire and two-wire operation in telecommunication systems.
A frame is a digital data transmission unit in computer networking and telecommunication. A frame typically includes frame synchronization features consisting of a sequence of bits or symbols that indicate to the receiver, the beginning, and end of the payload data within the stream of symbols or bits it receives.
Frame rate (expressed in  or fps) is the frequency (rate) at which consecutive images called frames are displayed in an animated display. The term applies equally to film and video cameras, computer graphics, and motion capture systems.
280px|thumb|Vellum manuscript of the Constitution of Vermont, 1777. This constitution was amended in 1786, and replaced in 1793 following Vermont's admission to the federal union in 1791.
In the reception of framed data, a frame slip is the loss of synchronization between a received frame and the receiver clock signal, causing a frame misalignment event, and resulting in the loss of the data contained in the received frame.
In telecommunication, frame synchronization or framing is the process by which, while receiving a stream of framed data, incoming frame alignment signals (i.e.
Framed|
In telecommunication, free-space path loss (FSPL) is the attenuation of radio energy between the feedpoints of two antennas that results from the combination of the receiving antenna's capture area plus the obstacle free, line-of-sight path through free space (usually air).  The &quot;Standard Definitions of Terms for Antennas&quot;,  IEEE Std 145-1993, defines &quot;free-space loss&quot; as &quot;The loss between two isotropic radiators in free space, expressed as a power ratio.
Freeze frame television:  Television in which fixed (&quot;still&quot;) images (the frames of the video) are transmitted sequentially at a rate far too slow to be perceived as continuous motion by human vision.  The receiving device typically holds each frame in memory, displaying it until the next complete frame is available.
The F region of the ionosphere is home to the F layer of ionization, also called the Appleton–Barnett layer, after the English physicist Edward Appleton and New Zealander Miles Barnett. As with other ionospheric sectors, 'layer' implies a concentration of plasma, while 'region' is the volume that contains the said layer.
In telecommunication, frequency assignment authority is the power granted for the administration, designation or delegation to an agency or administrator via treaty or law, to specify frequencies, frequency channels or frequency bands, in the electromagnetic spectrum for use in radiocommunication services, radio stations or ISM applications.
In telecommunication, the term frequency averaging has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, frequency-change signaling is a  telegraph signaling method in which one or more particular frequencies correspond to each desired signaling condition of a telegraph code.  The transition from one set of frequencies to the other may be a continuous or a discontinuous change in the frequency or phase.
In telecommunication, the term frequency compatibility has the following meanings:
Frequency deviation (f_{\Delta}) is used in FM radio to describe the maximum difference between an FM modulated frequency and the nominal carrier frequency. The term is sometimes mistakenly used as synonymous with frequency drift, which is an unintended offset of an oscillator from its nominal frequency.
In telegraphy, frequency-exchange signaling or two-source frequency keying is frequency-change signaling in which the change from one significant condition to another is accompanied by decay in amplitude of one or more frequencies and by buildup in amplitude of one or more other frequencies.
In telecommunication, the term frequency frogging has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, frequency sharing is the assignment to or use of the same radio frequency by two or more stations that are separated geographically or that use the frequency at different times.
In the physical sciences and in telecommunication, the term frequency shift may refer to:
Frequency-shift keying (FSK) is a frequency modulation scheme in which digital information is transmitted through discrete frequency changes of a carrier signal., p 509  The technology is used for communication systems such as amateur radio, caller ID and emergency broadcasts.  The simplest FSK is binary FSK (BFSK). BFSK uses a pair of discrete frequencies to transmit binary (0s and 1s) information.FSK: Signals and Demodulation (B. Watson) http://www.xn--sten-cpa.se/share/text/tektext/digital-modulation/FSK_signals_demod.pdf  With this scheme, the &quot;1&quot; is called the mark frequency and the &quot;0&quot; is called the space frequency.
thumb|These precision 100 kHz [[crystal oven|oven controlled crystal oscillators at the US Bureau of Standards (now NIST) served as the frequency standard for the United States in 1929.]]
}}
In telecommunication, the term front-to-back ratio (also known as front-to-rear ratio) can mean:
Federal Telecommunications System 2000 (FTS2000) is a long distance telecommunications service for the United States federal government, including services such as switched voice service for voice or data up to 4.8 kbit/s, switched data at 56 kbit/s and 64 kbit/s, switched digital integrated service for voice, data, image, and video up to 1.
thumb|250px|right|full width at half maximum
In telecommunication, a functional profile is a standardization document that characterizes the requirements of a standard or group of standards, and specifies how the options and ambiguities in the standard(s) should be interpreted or implemented to (a) provide a particular information technology function, (b) provide for the development of uniform, recognized tests, and (c) promote interoperability among different network elements and terminal equipment that implement a specific profile.
Fuse or FUSE may refer to:
Gateway often refers to:
Gating may refer to:
thumb|right|Intensity of a Gaussian beam around focus at an instant of time, showing two intensity peaks for each [[wavefront.|258x258px]]
A gel is a solid jelly-like material that can have properties ranging from soft and weak to hard and tough. Gels are defined as a substantially dilute cross-linked system, which exhibits no flow when in the steady-state.
A geostationary orbit, geostationary Earth orbit or geosynchronous equatorial orbit (GEO) is a circular orbit  above the Earth's equator and following the direction of the Earth's rotation.A geostationary Earth orbit satellite model using Easy Java Simulation Loo Kang Wee and Giam Hwee Goh 2013 Phys.
In fiber optics, a graded index is an optical fiber whose core has a refractive index that decreases with increasing radial distance from the optical axis of the fiber.
In telecommunication engineering, and in particular teletraffic engineering, the quality of voice service is specified by two measures: the grade of service (GoS) and the quality of service (QoS).
In ISO/IEC 646 (commonly known as ASCII) and related standards including ISO 8859 and Unicode, a graphic character is any character intended to be written, printed, or otherwise displayed in a form that can be read by humans. In other words, it is any encoded character that is associated with one or more glyphs.
thumb|250px|A typical earthing electrode (left of gray pipe), consisting of a conductive rod driven into the ground, at a home in [[Australia.Most electrical codes specify that the insulation on protective earthing conductors must be a distinctive color (or color combination) not used for any other purpose.
In telecommunication, ground constants are the electrical parameters of earth, such as conductivity, permittivity, and magnetic permeability.
Ground loop may refer to:
}}
In telecommunication, a group alerting and dispatching system is a service feature that (a) enables a controlling telephone to place a call to a specified number of telephones simultaneously, (b) enables the call to be recorded, (c) if any of the called lines is busy, enables the equipment to camp on until the busy line is free, and (d) rings the free line and plays the recorded message.
In signal processing, group delay is the time delay of the amplitude envelopes of the various sinusoidal components of a signal through a device under test, and is a function of frequency for each component.  Phase delay, in contrast, is the time delay of the phase as opposed to the time delay of the amplitude envelope.
A guided ray (also bound ray or trapped ray) is a ray of light in a multi-mode optical fiber, which is confined by the core.
In telecommunication, a Hagelbarger code is a convolutional code that enables error bursts to be corrected provided that there are relatively long error-free intervals between the error bursts.
In a facsimile system the halftone characteristic is either:
3}})
has distance 3;  has distance 2
}}
In information handling, the U.S.
thumb|These rectangles constitute the hard (factory originated) sectoring of a DVD-RAM disc
thumb|250px|The nodes of a vibrating string are harmonics.
In the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN), a high-speed channel comprising multiple aggregated low-speed channels to accommodate bandwidth-intensive applications such as file transfer, videoconferencing, and high-quality audio. An H channel is formed of multiple bearer B channels bonded together in a primary rate access (PRA) or primary rate interface (PRI) frame in support of applications with bandwidth requirements that exceed the B channel rate of 64 kbit/s.
thumb|350px|Frequency mixer symbol used in schematic diagrams.
Heuristic routing is a system used to describe how deliveries are made when problems in a network topology arise. Heuristic is an adjective used in relation to methods of learning, discovery, or problem solving.
Hierarchical routing  is a method of routing in networks that is based on hierarchical addressing.
High-performance equipment describes telecommunications equipment that
A hop is a type of jump.
Horn or Horns may refer to:
A hotline is a point-to-point communications link in which a call is automatically directed to the preselected destination without any additional action by the user when the end instrument goes off-hook.Derived from Federal Standard 1037C An example would be a phone that automatically connects to emergency services on picking up the receiver.
Hybrid}}
In telecommunications, a hybrid balance is an expression of the degree of electrical symmetry between two impedances connected to two conjugate sides of a hybrid coil or resistance hybrid. It is usually expressed in dB.
A hybrid coil (or bridge transformer, or sometimes hybrid) is a transformer that has three windings, and which is designed to be configured as a circuit having four ports that are conjugate in pairs.
Hybrid routing is the routing of telephone calls in which numbering plans and routing tables are used to permit the colocation, in the same area code, of switches using a deterministic routing scheme with switches using a non-deterministic routing scheme, such as flood search routing.
Hydroxyl ion absorption is the absorption in optical fibers of electromagnetic waves, including the near-infrared, due to the presence of trapped hydroxyl ions remaining from water as a contaminant.
An identifier is a name that identifies (that is, labels the identity of) either a unique object or a unique class of objects, where the &quot;object&quot; or class may be an idea, physical [countable] object (or class thereof), or physical [noncountable] substance (or class thereof). The abbreviation ID often refers to identity, identification (the process of identifying), or an identifier (that is, an instance of identification).
thumb|upright=1.5|Due to its image in the ground plane (dotted lines), a [[monopole antenna has the same radiation pattern over perfect ground as a dipole antenna in free space with twice the voltage]]
Improved-definition television (IDTV) or enhanced-quality television transmitters and receivers exceed the performance requirements of the NTSC standard, while remaining within the general parameters of NTSC emissions standards.
In telecommunications networks, independent clocks are free-running precision clocks located at the nodes which are used for synchronization.
In optics, an index-matching material is a substance, usually a liquid, cement (adhesive), or gel, which has an index of refraction that closely approximates that of another object (such as a lens, material, fiber-optic, etc.).
In electrical engineering, two conductors are referred to as inductively coupled or magnetically coupled Zverev, A.I.
In telecommunications, an information-bearer channel is one of:
A transaction is a change of state, an information-transfer transaction is a transaction in which one of the following changes occurs: content, ownership, location, format, etc. An information-transfer transaction usually consists of three consecutive phases called the access phase, the information transfer phase, and the disengagement phase.
Input may refer to:
In telecommunication, insertion gain is the gain resulting from the insertion of a device in a transmission line, expressed as the ratio of the signal power delivered to that part of the line following the device to the signal power delivered to that same part before insertion.  If the resulting number is less than unity, an &quot;insertion loss&quot; is indicated.
In telecommunications, insertion loss is the loss of signal power resulting from the insertion of a device in a transmission line or optical fiber and is usually expressed in decibels (dB).
In telecommunication, the term inside plant has the following meanings:
The Intelligent Network (IN) is the standard network architecture specified in the ITU-T Q.1200 series recommendations.
In optical communications, intensity modulation (IM) is a form of modulation in which the optical power output of a source is varied in accordance with some characteristic of the modulating signal.  The envelope of the modulated optical signal is an analog of the modulating signal in the sense that the instantaneous power of the envelope is an analog of the characteristic of interest in the modulating signal.
Intercept may refer to:
Interchangeability can refer to:
In telecommunication, an interchange circuit is a circuit that facilitates the exchange of data and signaling information between data terminal equipment (DTE) and data circuit-terminating equipment (DCE).
In telecommunications, the intercharacter interval is the time interval between the end of the stop signal of one character and the beginning of the start signal of the next character of an asynchronous transmission.
Interconnect facility:  In a communications network, one or more communications links that (a) are used to provide local area communications service among several locations and (b) collectively form a node in the network.
Interface may refer to:
In telephony, interface functionality is the characteristic of interfaces that allows operators to support transmission, switching, and signaling functions identical to those used in the enhanced services provided by the carrier.
In telecommunications, an interface standard is a standard that describes one or more functional characteristics (such as code conversion, line assignments, or protocol compliance) or physical characteristics (such as electrical, mechanical, or optical characteristics) necessary to allow the exchange of information between two or more (usually different) systems or pieces of equipment. Communications protocols are an example.
thumb|Band-pass interference filter for laser experiments
An intermediate distribution frame (IDF) is a distribution frame in a central office or customer premises, which cross-connects the user cable media to individual user line circuits and may serve as a distribution point for multipair cables from the main distribution frame (MDF) or combined distribution frame (CDF) to individual cables connected to equipment in areas remote from these frames.
Intermediate-field region:  For an antenna, the transition region--lying between the near-field region and the far-field region--in which the field strength of an electromagnetic wave is dependent upon the inverse distance, inverse square of the distance, and the inverse cube of the distance from the antenna.  For an antenna that is small compared to the wavelength in question, the intermediate-field region is considered to exist at all distances between 0.
In computer networking, IP address spoofing or IP spoofing is the creation of Internet Protocol (IP) packets with a false source IP address, for the purpose of hiding the identity of the sender or impersonating another computing system. One technique which a sender may use to maintain anonymity is to use a proxy server.
}}
In telecommunication, the term interposition trunk has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, intersymbol interference (ISI) is a form of distortion of a signal in which one symbol interferes with subsequent symbols. This is an unwanted phenomenon as the previous symbols have similar effect as noise, thus making the communication less reliable.
thumb|420px|S represents the light source, while r represents the measured points. The lines represent the [[flux emanating from the source.
In telecommunication and radio science, an ionospheric sounding is a technique that provides real-time data on high-frequency ionospheric-dependent radio propagation, using a basic system consisting of a synchronized transmitter and receiver.
A sequence of events is isochronous if the events occur regularly, or at equal time intervals. The term isochronous is used in several technical contexts, but usually refers to the primary subject maintaining a constant period or interval (the reciprocal of frequency), despite variations in other measurable factors in the same system.
Isochronous burst transmission is a method of  transmission.  In a data network where the information-bearer channel rate is higher than the input data signaling rate, transmission is performed by interrupting, at controlled intervals, the data stream being transmitted.
In telecommunication, an isochronous signal is a signal in which the time interval separating any two significant instants is equal to the unit interval or a multiple of the unit interval. Variations in the time intervals are constrained within specified limits.
Jerkiness, sometimes called strobing or choppy, describes the perception of individual still images in a motion picture.
Wandering}}
The Joint multichannel trunking and switching system is that composite multichannel trunking and switching system formed from assets of the Services, the Defense Communications System, other available systems, and/or assets controlled by the Joint Chiefs of Staff to provide an operationally responsive, survivable communication system, preferably in a mobile/transportable/recoverable configuration, for the joint force commander in an area of operations.
__NOTOC__
Justify may refer to:
In telecommunications the Kendall effect is a spurious pattern or other distortion in a facsimile.
K-factor or K factor may refer to:
In electromagnetic wave propagation, the knife-edge effect or edge diffraction is a redirection by diffraction of a portion of the incident radiation that strikes a well-defined obstacle such as a mountain range or the edge of a building.
A label is any kind of tag attached to something so as to identify the object or its content. It may refer to:
In optics, Lambert's cosine law says that the radiant intensity or luminous intensity observed from an ideal diffusely reflecting surface or ideal diffuse radiator is directly proportional to the cosine of the angle θ between the direction of the incident light and the surface normal.RCA Electro-Optics Handbook, p.
In fiber optic telecommunications, the launch angle has the following meanings:
In telecommunications, launch numerical aperture (LNA) is the numerical aperture of an optical system used to couple (launch) power into an optical fiber.
Layer often refers to:
In telecommunication, a layered system is a system in which components are grouped, i.e.
A leaky mode or tunneling mode in an optical fiber or other waveguide is a mode having an electric field that decays monotonically for a finite distance in the transverse direction but becomes oscillatory everywhere beyond that finite distance. Such a mode gradually &quot;leaks&quot; out of the waveguide as it travels down it, producing attenuation even if the waveguide is perfect in every respect.
In electrodynamics, linear polarization or plane polarization of electromagnetic radiation is a confinement of the electric field vector or magnetic field vector to a given plane along the direction of propagation. See polarization for more information.
In telecommunication, a line code is a code chosen for use within a communications system for transmitting a digital signal down a line. Line coding is often used for digital data transport.
Link or Links may refer to:
Link level: In the hierarchical structure of a primary or secondary station, the conceptual level of control or data processing logic that controls the data link.
In adaptive high-frequency (HF) radio, link quality analysis (LQA) is the overall process by which measurements of signal quality are made, assessed, and analyzed.
Load may refer to:
Loading characteristic:  In multichannel telephone systems, a plot, for the busy hour, of the equivalent mean power and the peak power as a function of the number of voice channels.
A loading coil or load coil is an inductor that is inserted into an electronic circuit to increase its inductance.  A loading coil is not a transformer as it does not provide coupling to another circuit.
Lobe may refer to:
thumb|right|350px|Map of LATAs in the US
In telephony, the term local call has the following meanings:
A log-periodic antenna (LP), also known as a log-periodic array or log-periodic aerial, is a multi-element, directional, antenna designed to operate over a wide band of frequencies. It was invented by Dwight Isbell and Raymond DuHamel at the University of Illinois in 1958.
In telecommunication, the term long-haul communications has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a longitudinal redundancy check (LRC), or horizontal redundancy check, is a form of redundancy check that is applied independently to each of a parallel group of bit streams.  The data must be divided into transmission blocks, to which the additional check data is added.
The long-term stability of an oscillator is the degree of uniformity of frequency over time, when the frequency is measured under identical environmental conditions, such as supply voltage, load, and temperature. Long-term frequency changes are caused by changes in the oscillator elements that determine frequency, such as crystal drift, inductance changes, and capacitance changes.
In electronics and control system theory, loop gain is the sum of the gain, expressed as a ratio or in decibels, around a feedback loop.   Feedback loops are widely used in electronics in amplifiers and oscillators, and more generally in both electronic and nonelectronic industrial control systems to control industrial plant and equipment.
In telecommunication, the term low-performance equipment has the following meanings:
LPD433 (low power device 433 MHz) is a UHF band in which licence free communication devices are allowed to operate. The frequencies correspond with the ITU region 1 ISM band of 433.
In telecommunications and computing a machine-readable medium (automated data medium) is a medium capable of storing data in a format readable by a mechanical device (rather than human readable).
}}
A magneto-optic effect is any one of a number of phenomena in which an electromagnetic wave propagates through a medium that has been altered by the presence of a quasistatic magnetic field.   In such a material, which is also called gyrotropic or gyromagnetic, left- and right-rotating elliptical polarizations can propagate at different speeds, leading to a number of important phenomena.
In telephony, a main distribution frame (MDF or main frame) is a signal distribution frame for connecting equipment (inside plant) to cables and subscriber carrier equipment (outside plant).  The MDF is a termination point within the local telephone exchange where exchange equipment and terminations of local loops are connected by jumper wires at the MDF.
In a radio antenna's radiation pattern, the main lobe, or main beam is the lobe  containing the maximum power. This is the lobe that exhibits the greatest field strength.
In engineering, maintainability is the ease with which a product can be maintained in order to:
Maintenance may refer to:
In telecommunication, the term managed object has the following meanings:
In telecommunication and data storage, Manchester coding (also known as phase encoding, or PE) is a line code in which the encoding of each data bit is either low then high, or high then low, of equal time. It therefore has no DC bias, and is self-clocking, which means that it may be inductively or capacitively coupled, and that a clock signal can be recovered from the encoded data.
In multimode fiber optics, mandrel wrapping is  a technique used to preferentially attenuate high-order mode power  of a propagating optical signal.   Consequently, if the fibre is propagating substantial energy in affected modes, the modal distribution will be changed.
Margin  may refer to:
In telecommunication, a maritime broadcast communications net is a communications net that is used for international distress calling, including international lifeboat, lifecraft, and survival-craft high frequency (HF); aeronautical emergency very high frequency (VHF); survival ultra high frequency (UHF); international calling and safety very high frequency (VHF); combined scene-of-search-and-rescue; and other similar and related purposes.
A master frequency generator or master electronic oscillator, in frequency-division multiplexing (FDM), is a piece of equipment used to provide system end-to-end carrier frequency synchronization and frequency accuracy of tones.
In telecommunication, a master station is a station that controls or coordinates the activities of other stations in the system.
In telecommunications, maximum-ratio combining (MRC) is a method of diversity combining in which:
In radio transmission  maximum usable frequency (MUF) is the highest radio frequency that can be used for transmission between two points via reflection from the ionosphere (skywave or &quot;skip&quot; propagation) at a specified time, independent of transmitter power. This index is especially useful in regard to shortwave transmissions.
In a system the mean time between outages (MTBO) is the mean time between equipment failures that result in loss of system continuity or unacceptable degradation.
Mechanically induced modulation is an optical signal modulation induced by mechanical means.
In telecommunications network management, a mediation function is a function that routes or acts on information passing between network elements and network operations.
In telecommunication, a medium-power talker is a hypothetical talker, within a log-normal distribution of talkers, whose volume lies at the medium power of all talkers determining the volume distribution at the point of interest.
A message is a discrete unit of communication intended by the source for consumption by some recipient or group of recipients.  A message may be delivered by various means, including courier, telegraphy, carrier pigeon and electronic bus.
In telecommunication, a message format is a predetermined or prescribed spatial or time-sequential arrangement of the parts of a message that is recorded in or on a data storage medium.
In telecommunication, a micro-mainframe link is a physical or logical connection established between a remote microprocessor and mainframe host computer for the express purpose of uploading, downloading, or viewing interactive data and databases on-line in real time.
Mixer may refer to:
}}
In fiber optics, the mode field diameter (MFD) is an expression of distribution of the irradiance, i.e.
Mode partition noise:  In an optical communication link, is phase jitter of the signal caused by the combined effects of mode hopping in the optical source and intramodal distortion in the fiber.
In telecommunications, a mode scrambler mode mixer is a device for inducing mode coupling in an optical fiber, or a device that, itself, exhibits a uniform output intensity profile independent of the input mode volume or modal excitation condition. Mode scramblers are used to provide a modal distribution that is independent of the optical source for purposes of laboratory, manufacturing, or field measurements or tests.
In fiber optics, mode volume is the number of bound modes that an optical fiber is capable of supporting.
In United States telecommunication law, the Modification of Final Judgment (MFJ) is the August 1982 agreement approved by the court (consent decree) settling United States v. AT&amp;T, a landmark antitrust suit, originally filed on January 14, 1949 and modifying the previous Final Judgment of January 24, 1956.
Modified AMI codes are a digital telecommunications technique to maintain system synchronization. Alternate Mark Inversion (AMI) line codes are modified by deliberate insertion of bipolar violations.
The µ-law algorithm (sometimes written &quot;mu-law&quot;, often approximated as &quot;u-law&quot;) is a companding algorithm, primarily used in 8-bit PCM digital telecommunication systems in North America and Japan. It is one of two versions of the G.
A multicast address is a logical identifier for a group of hosts in a computer network that are available to process datagrams or frames intended to be multicast for a designated network service. Multicast addressing can be used in the link layer (layer 2 in the OSI model), such as Ethernet multicast, and at the internet layer (layer 3 for OSI) for Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4) or Version 6 (IPv6) multicast.
Multipath}}
In telecommunication, the term multiple homing has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term multiplex baseband has the following meanings:
In telecommunications and computer networks, multiplexing (sometimes contracted to muxing) is a method by which multiple analog or digital signals are combined into one signal over a shared medium. The aim is to share a scarce resource.
Narrative traffic is data communications consisting of plain or encrypted messages written in a natural language and transmitted in accordance with standard formats and procedures.
In telecommunication, a narrowband modem is a modem whose modulated output signal has an essential frequency spectrum that is limited to that which can be wholly contained within, and faithfully transmitted through, a voice channel with a nominal 4 kHz bandwidth.
right|thumb|NCS seal
The National Information Infrastructure (NII) was the product of the High Performance Computing Act of 1991. It was a telecommunications policy buzzword, which was popularized during the Clinton Administration under the leadership of Vice-President Al Gore.
The neper (symbol: Np) is a logarithmic unit for ratios of measurements of physical field and power quantities, such as gain and loss of electronic signals. The unit's name is derived from the name of John Napier, the inventor of logarithms.
In telecommunications, net gain is the overall gain of a transmission circuit. Net gain is measured by applying a test signal at an appropriate power level at the input port of a circuit and measuring the power delivered at the output port.
In telecommunication, net operation is the operation of an organization of stations capable of direct communication on a common channel or frequency.
Network architecture is the design of a communication network. It is a framework for the specification of a network's physical components and their functional organization and configuration, its operational principles and procedures, as well as data formats use.
Network engineering may refer to:
Interface}}
[interface device ameritech.jpg|thumb|upright|Two simple NIDs, carrying six lines each, on the outside of a building]
Network management is the process of administering and managing the computer networks of one or many organizations. Various services provided by network managers include fault analysis, performance management, provisioning of network and network devices, maintaining the quality of service, and so on.
The term network operating system is used to refer to two rather different concepts:
Network topology is the arrangement of the various elements (links, nodes, etc.) of a communication network.
In telecommunication, a neutral direct-current telegraph system (single-current system, single-current transmission system, single-Morse system) is a telegraph system in which (a) current flows during marking intervals and no current flows during spacing intervals for the transmission of signals over a line, and (b) the direction of current flow is immaterial.
Noise is unwanted sound judged to be unpleasant, loud or disruptive to hearing. From a physics standpoint, noise is indistinguishable from sound, as both are vibrations through a medium, such as air or water.
Noise-equivalent power (NEP) is a measure of the sensitivity of a photodetector or detector system. It is defined as the signal power that gives a signal-to-noise ratio of one in a one hertz output bandwidth.
Noise figure (NF) and noise factor (F) are measures of degradation of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), caused by components in a radio-frequency (RF) signal chain.   It is a number by which the performance of an amplifier or a radio receiver can be specified, with lower values indicating better performance.
In telecommunication, the term noise power has the following meanings:
In electronics, noise temperature is one way of expressing the level of available noise power introduced by a component or source. The power spectral density of the noise is expressed in terms of the temperature (in kelvins) that would produce that level of Johnson–Nyquist noise, thus:
A noise weighting is a specific amplitude-vs.-frequency characteristic that is designed to allow subjectively valid measurement of noise.
In telecommunication, a non-return-to-zero (NRZ) line code is a binary code in which ones are represented by one significant condition, usually a positive voltage, while zeros are represented by some other significant condition, usually a negative voltage, with no other neutral or rest condition. The pulses in NRZ have more energy than a return-to-zero (RZ) code, which also has an additional rest state beside the conditions for ones and zeros.
Normalized frequency can refer to:
NS/EP telecommunications is an abbreviation for National Security or Emergency Preparedness telecommunications of the United States. Telecommunications services that are used to maintain a state of readiness or to respond to and manage any event or crisis (local, national, or international) that causes or could cause injury or harm to the population, damage to or loss of property, or degrade or threaten the national security or emergency preparedness posture of the United States.
In telecommunication, a n-entity is an active element in the n-th layer of the Open Systems Interconnection--Reference Model (OSI-RM) that (a) interacts directly with elements, i.e.
thumb|The numerical aperture with respect to a point  depends on the half-angle, , of the maximum cone of light that can enter or exit the lens and the ambient index of refraction. As a [[Pencil (optics)|pencil of light goes through a flat plane of glass, its half-angle changes to .
thumb|Fig 1: Fourier transform of a bandlimited function (amplitude vs frequency)|right|240px
An off-axis optical system is an optical system in which the optical axis of the aperture is not coincident with the mechanical center of the aperture. Note: The principal applications of off-axis optical systems are to avoid obstruction of the primary aperture by secondary optical elements, instrument packages, or sensors, and to provide ready access to instrument packages or sensors at the focus.
In telephony, the term off-hook has the following meanings:
The terms &quot;online&quot; and &quot;offline&quot; have specific meanings in regard to computer technology and telecommunications in which &quot;online&quot; indicates a state of connectivity, while &quot;offline&quot; indicates a disconnected state. Common vernacular extended from their computing and telecommunication meanings and refers specifically to an internet connection.
In telecommunication, the term off-air or off-the-air has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a one-way trunk is a trunk between two switching centers, over which traffic may be originated from one preassigned location only.
In telephony, the term on-hook has the following meanings:
On-premises wiring (customer premises wiring) is customer-owned telecommunication transmission or distribution lines.[tsp.
In telecommunications, and in the context of Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) Computer Inquiry III, Open network architecture (ONA) is the overall design of a communication carrier's basic network facilities and services to permit all users of the basic network to interconnect to specific basic network functions and interfaces on an unbundled, equal-access basis.
}}
Operation or Operations may refer to:
An optical attenuator, or fiber optic attenuator, is a device used to reduce the power level of an optical signal, either in free space or in an optical fiber. The basic types of optical attenuators are fixed, step-wise variable, and continuously variable.
thumb|300px|Optical axis (coincides with red ray) and rays symmetrical to optical axis (pair of blue and pair of green rays) propagating through different lenses.
thumb|200px|The optical lens of a [[compact disc drive.]]
The Normandie-Niemen Regiment () is a fighter squadron, later regiment (of three squadrons) of the French Air Force. It served on the Eastern Front of the European Theatre of World War II with the 1st Air Army.
An optical isolator, or optical diode, is an optical component which allows the transmission of light in only one direction. It is typically used to prevent unwanted feedback into an optical oscillator, such as a laser cavity.
In optics, optical path length (OPL) or optical distance is the product of the geometric length of the path light follows through the system, and the index of refraction of the medium through which it propagates. A difference in optical path length between two paths is often called the optical path difference (OPD).
The optical power budget in a fiber-optic communication link is the allocation of available optical power (launched into a given fiber by a given source) among various loss-producing mechanisms such as launch coupling loss, fiber attenuation, splice losses, and connector losses, in order to ensure that adequate signal strength (optical power) is available at the receiver. In  optical power budget attenuation is specified  in decibels (dB) and optical power in dBms.
In an optical communications link, the optical power margin is the difference between the optical power that is launched by a given transmitter into the fiber, less transmission losses from all causes, and the minimum optical power that is required by the receiver for a specified level of performance. An optical power margin is typically measured using a calibrated light source and an optical power meter.
The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to the human eye. Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light.
In telecommunication, an optical switch is a switch that enables signals in optical fibers or integrated optical circuits (IOCs) to be selectively switched from one circuit to another.
An optical time-domain reflectometer (OTDR) is an optoelectronic instrument used to characterize an optical fiber. An OTDR is the optical equivalent of an electronic time domain reflectometer.
thumb|alt=Serving Area Interface|Serving Area Interface
In telecommunications and fiber optics, ovality or noncircularity is the degree of deviation from perfect circularity of the cross section of the core or cladding of the fiber.
In telecommunications, overfill is the condition that prevails when the numerical aperture or the  beam diameter of an optical source, such as a laser, light-emitting diode, or optical fiber, exceeds that of the driven element, e.g.
Overflow may refer to:
Overhead information is digital information transferred across the functional interface between a user and a telecommunications system, or between functional units within a telecommunications system, for the purpose of directing or controlling the transfer of user information or the detection and correction of errors.
Overmodulation is the condition that prevails in telecommunication when the instantaneous level of the modulating signal exceeds the value necessary to produce 100% modulation of the carrier. In the sense of this definition, it is almost always considered a fault condition.
Override may refer to:
Overshoot  may refer to:
thumb|250px|Vibrational modes of an ideal string, dividing the string length into integer divisions, producing [[harmonic partials f, 2f, 3f, 4f, etc. (where f means fundamental frequency).
Packet-switching node:  In a packet-switching network, a node that contains data switches and equipment for controlling, formatting, transmitting, routing, and receiving data packets.
In telecommunication, a paired disparity code is a line code in which at least one of the data characters is represented by two codewords of opposite [that are used in sequence] so as to minimize the total disparity of a longer sequence of digits.
Title 47 CFR Part 68 is a section of the Code of Federal Regulations of the United States that regulate the direct electrical connection of telecommunications equipment and customer premises wiring with the public switched telephone network, certain private line services, and connection of private branch exchange (PBX) equipment to certain telecommunication interfaces.
Party line may refer to:
A passband is the range of frequencies or wavelengths that can pass through a filter.  For example, a radio receiver contains a bandpass filter to select the frequency of the desired radio signal out of all the radio waves picked up by its antenna.
In telecommunication, a password length parameter is a basic parameter the value of which affects password strength against brute force attack and so is a contributor to computer security.
Path loss (or path attenuation) is the reduction in power density (attenuation) of an electromagnetic wave as it propagates through space. Path loss is a major component in the analysis and design of the link budget of a telecommunication system.
In telecommunication, a path profile is a graphic representation of the physical features of a propagation path in the vertical plane containing both endpoints of the path, showing the surface of the Earth and including trees, buildings, and other features that may obstruct the radio signal.
Path quality analysis:  In a communications path, an analysis that (a) includes the overall evaluation of the component quality measures, the individual link quality measures, and the aggregate path quality measures, and (b) is performed by evaluating communications parameters, such as bit error ratio, signal-plus-noise-plus-distortion to noise-plus-distortion ratio, and spectral distortion.
Payload is the carrying capacity of an aircraft or launch vehicle, usually measured in terms of weight. Depending on the nature of the flight or mission, the payload of a vehicle may include cargo, passengers, flight crew, munitions, scientific instruments or experiments, or other equipment.
Pseudo bit error ratio (PBER) in adaptive high-frequency (HF) radio, is a bit error ratio derived by a majority decoder that processes redundant transmissions.
PCS switching center:  In personal communications service, a facility that (a) supports access-independent call control/service control, and connection control (switching) functions, and (b) is responsible for interconnection of access and network systems to support end-to-end services.
Penetration may refer to:
Performance management (PM) includes activities which ensure that goals are consistently being met in an effective and efficient manner. Performance management can focus on the performance of an organization, a department, employee, or even the processes to build a product or service, as well as many other areas.
In telecommunication, performance measurement period is the period during which performance parameters are measured.
In telecommunication, a periscope antenna is an antenna configuration in which the transmitting antenna is oriented to produce a vertical radiation pattern, and a flat or off-axis parabolic reflector, mounted above the transmitting antenna, is used to direct the [in a horizontal path] toward the receiving antenna.
In Universal Personal Telecommunications (UPT), personal mobility is the ability of a user to access telecommunication services at any UPT terminal on the basis of a personal identifier, and the capability of the network to provide those services in accord with the user's service profile.
In telecommunication and electrical engineering, a phantom circuit is an electrical circuit derived from suitably arranged wires with one or more conductive paths being a circuit in itself and at the same time acting as one conductor of another circuit.
In the context of phasors, phase angle refers to the angular component of the complex number representation of the function.  The notation A\ang \!
In antenna theory, a phased array usually means an electronically scanned array; an array of antennas which creates a beam of radio waves which can be electronically steered to point in different directions, without moving the antennas.{{cite book
In signal processing, phase distortion or phase-frequency distortion is distortion, that is, change in the shape of the waveform,  that occurs when (a) a filter's phase response is not linear over the frequency range of interest, that is, the phase shift introduced by a circuit or device is not directly proportional to frequency, or (b) the zero-frequency intercept of the phase-frequency characteristic is not 0 or an integral multiple of 2π radians.
Phase inversion is the swapping of the two poles of an alternating current source. A phase inversion is neither a time shift nor a phase shift, but simply a swap of plus and minus.
(Opole) -  (Masovian)
Cod is the common name for the genus Gadus of demersal fishes, belonging to the family Gadidae. Cod is also used as part of the common name for a number of other fish species, and some species suggested to belong to genus Gadus are not called cod (the Alaska pollock).
The photic zone, euphotic zone (Greek for &quot;well lit&quot;:  &quot;well&quot; +  &quot;light&quot;), or sunlight or (Sunlit) zone is the depth of the water in a lake or ocean that is exposed to such intensity of sunlight which designates compensation point, i.e.
Northanger Abbey () was the first of Jane Austen's novels to be completed for publication, in 1803, but published after her death, at the end of 1817. The novel is a satire of the Gothic novels popular at the time of its first writing in 1798–99.
(Combined populations of the 16 wards that make-up the unparished area.)
Renaissance architecture is the European architecture of the period between the early 14th and early 17th centuries in different regions, demonstrating a conscious revival and development of certain elements of ancient Greek and Roman thought and material culture. Stylistically, Renaissance architecture followed Gothic architecture and was succeeded by Baroque architecture.
Amadeus is a play by Peter Shaffer, which gives a highly fictionalized account of the lives of the composers Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Antonio Salieri. First performed in 1979, Amadeus was inspired by a short 1830 play by Alexander Pushkin called Mozart and Salieri (which was also used as the libretto for an opera of the same name by Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov in 1897).
thumb|Kritios Boy. c.
György Dalos (born September 23, 1943) is a Hungarian Jewish writer and historian. He is best known for his novel 1985, and The Guest from the Future: Anna Akhmatova and Isaiah Berlin.
Eldred v. Ashcroft, 537 U.
In chemistry and physics, the Avogadro constant (named after the scientist Amedeo Avogadro) is the number of constituent particles, usually atoms or molecules, that are contained in the amount of substance given by one mole. Thus, it is the proportionality factor that relates the molar mass of a compound to the mass of a sample.
thumb|Simplest analog phase locked loop
In signal processing, phase noise is the frequency domain representation of rapid, short-term, random fluctuations in the phase of a waveform, caused by time domain instabilities (&quot;jitter&quot;).  Generally speaking, radio frequency engineers speak of the phase noise of an oscillator, whereas digital system engineers work with the jitter of a clock.
Phase perturbation is the shifting, from whatever cause, in the phase of an electronic signal. The shifting is often quite rapid, and may appear to be random or cyclic.
Phase-shift keying (PSK) is a digital modulation process which conveys data by changing (modulating) the phase of a reference signal (the carrier wave). The modulation occurs by varying the sine and cosine inputs at a precise time.
Phonetic alphabet can mean:
Photocurrent is the electric current through a photosensitive device, such as a photodiode, as the result of exposure to radiant power.
Pilot most commonly refers to:
thumb|Layers of a PIN diode
In telecommunications and radar, a planar array is an antenna in which all of the elements, both active and parasitic, are in one plane.  A planar array provides a large aperture and may be used for directional beam control by varying the relative phase of each element.
In the physics of wave propagation, a plane wave (also spelled planewave) is a wave whose wavefronts (surfaces of constant phase) are infinite parallel planes.  Mathematically a plane wave takes the form
In telecommunications and fiber optics, a plastic-clad silica fiber or polymer-clad silica fiber (PCS) is an optical fiber that has a silica-based core and a plastic cladding. The cladding of a PCS fiber should not be confused with the polymer overcoat of a conventional all-silica fiber.
A polarential telegraph system is a direct-current telegraph system employing polar transmission in one direction and a form of differential duplex transmission in the other.
Polarization}}
In fiber optics, polarization-maintaining optical fiber (PMF or PM fiber) is a single-mode optical fiber in which linearly polarized light, if properly launched into the fiber, maintains a linear polarization during propagation, exiting the fiber in a specific linear polarization state; there is little or no cross-coupling of optical power between the two polarization modes. Such fiber is used in special applications where preserving polarization is essential.
In telecommunication, a power budget (or system budget) is the allocation, within a system, of available transmitter power output to achieve the desired effective radiated power, among the various functions that need to be performed.
In electrical engineering, the power factor of an AC electrical power system is defined as the ratio of the real power flowing to the load to the apparent power in the circuit,..  Note 1, section 3.
In telecommunication, the term power failure transfer has the following meanings:
For optical fibers, a power-law index profile is an index of refraction profile characterized by
In telecommunication, the power margin is the difference between available signal power and the minimum signal power needed to overcome system losses and still satisfy the minimum input requirements of the receiver for a given performance level.
;Concepts
In FM broadcasting, preemphasis improvement is the improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio of the high-frequency portion of the baseband, i.e.
Machine maintenance or the preventive maintenance (PM) has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term primary channel has the following meanings:
The Primary Rate Interface (PRI) is a telecommunications interface standard used on an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) for carrying multiple DS0 voice and data transmissions between the network and a user.
In a data communication network, the primary station is the station responsible for unbalanced control of a data link.
In telecommunications, a primary time standard is a time standard that does not require calibration against another time standard.
In telecommunications, the principal clock of a set of redundant clocks, is the clock that is selected for normal use. The principal clock may be selected because of a property, e.
Priority may refer to:
Priority level or priority, in the Telecommunications Service Priority system, is the level that may be assigned to an NS/EP telecommunications service, which level specifies the order in which provisioning or restoration of the service is to occur relative to other NS/EP or non-NS/EP telecommunication services.
In wired telephony, a private line or tie line is a service that involves dedicated circuits, private switching arrangements, and/or predefined transmission paths, whether virtual or physical, which provide communications between specific locations.  Most private lines connect only two locations though they may be switched at either end or both.
In telecommunications, proceed-to-select is a signal or event in the call-access phase of a data call, which signal or event confirms the reception of a call-request signal and advises the calling data terminal equipment to proceed with the transmission of the selection signals.
The propagation constant of a sinusoidal electromagnetic wave is a measure of the change undergone by the amplitude and phase of the wave as it propagates in a given direction. The quantity being measured can be the voltage, the current in a circuit, or a field vector such as electric field strength or flux density.
In telecommunication, a propagation path obstruction is a man-made or natural physical feature that lies near enough to a radio path to cause a measurable effect on path loss, exclusive of reflection effects. An obstruction may lie to the side, above, or below the path.
A protective distribution system (PDS), also called protected distribution system, is a US government term for wireline or fiber-optics telecommunication system that includes terminals and adequate acoustical, electrical, electromagnetic, and physical safeguards to permit its use for the unencrypted transmission of classified information.  At one time these systems were called &quot;approved circuits&quot;.
In telecommunication, the term protocol-control information or PCI has the following meanings:
thumb|350px|MAC layer PDU becomes physical layer SDU
In telecommunication, provisioning involves the process of preparing and equipping a network to allow it to provide (new) services to its users.  In National Security/Emergency Preparedness telecommunications services, &quot;provisioning&quot; equates to  &quot;initiation&quot; and includes altering the state of an existing priority service or capability.
In cryptography, pseudo random noise (PRN ) is a signal similar to noise which satisfies one or more of the standard tests for statistical randomness.
In telecommunications, a psophometer is an instrument that provides a visual indication of the audible effects of disturbing voltages of various frequencies.
Psophometric voltage is a circuit noise voltage measured with a psophometer that includes a CCIF-1951 weighting network.
In telecommunication, a public data transmission service is a data transmission service that is established and operated by a telecommunication administration, or a recognized private operating agency, and uses a public data network.
A public land mobile network (PLMN), as defined in telecommunications regulation, is a network that is established and operated by an administration or by a recognized operating agency (ROA) for the specific purpose of providing land mobile telecommunications services to the public.
In medicine, a pulse represents the tactile arterial palpation of the heartbeat by trained fingertips. The pulse may be palpated in any place that allows an artery to be compressed near the surface of the body, such as at the neck (carotid artery), on the inside of the elbow (brachial artery), at the wrist (radial artery), at the groin (femoral artery), behind the knee (popliteal artery), near the ankle joint (posterior tibial artery), and on foot (dorsalis pedis artery).
In telecommunications, pulse-address multiple access (PAMA) is a channel access method that enables the ability of a communication satellite to receive signals from several Earth terminals simultaneously and to amplify, translate, and relay the signals back to Earth, based on the addressing of each station by an assignment of a unique combination of time and frequency slots.
right|thumb|300px|Pulse duration using 50% peak amplitude.
In telecommunications, a pulse link repeater (PLR) is a device that interfaces concatenated E and M signaling paths.
Pulsing may refer to:
Pumping can refer to:
Push-to-type operation:  In telegraph or data transmission systems, that method of communication in which the operator at a station must keep a switch operated in order to send messages.
Quadrature may refer to:
In fiber optics, a quadruply clad fiber is a single-mode optical fiber that has four claddings. Each cladding has a refractive index lower than that of the core.
Quality control, or QC for short, is a process by which entities review the quality of all factors involved in production. ISO 9000 defines quality control as &quot;A part of quality management focused on fulfilling quality requirements&quot;.
In telecommunication, a quasi-analog signal is a digital signal that has been converted to a form suitable for transmission over a specified analog channel.
In telecommunication and computer engineering, the queuing delay or queueing delay is the time a job waits in a queue until it can be executed. It is a key component of network delay.
In fiber optics, the radiation angle is half the vertex angle of the cone of light emitted at the exit face of an optical fiber.
For an optical fiber or waveguide, a radiation mode or unbound mode is a mode which is not confined by the fiber core. Such a mode has fields that are transversely oscillatory everywhere external to the waveguide, and exists even at the limit of zero wavelength.
thumb|right|upright=1.4|Three-dimensional antenna radiation patterns.
In telecommunication and position fixing, the term radio fix has the following meanings:
Radiometry is a set of techniques for measuring electromagnetic radiation, including visible light. Radiometric techniques in optics characterize the distribution of the radiation's power in space, as opposed to photometric techniques, which characterize the light's interaction with the human eye.
Random number may refer to:
In telecommunication, receive-after-transmit time delay is the time interval between (a) the instant of keying off the local transmitter to stop transmitting and (b) the instant the local receiver output has increased to 90% of its steady-state value in response to an rf signal from a distant transmitter.
In telecommunications, received noise power is a measure of noise in a receiver. For example, the received noise power might be:
In telecommunications, attack-time delay is the time needed for a receiver or transmitter to respond to an incoming signal.
In telecommunication, a recorder warning tone is a tone transmitted over a telephone line to indicate to the called party that the calling party is recording the conversation.
In telecommunication, a recovery procedure is a process that attempts to bring a system back to a normal operating state. Examples:
A reference circuit is a hypothetical electric circuit of specified equivalent length and configuration, and having a defined transmission characteristic or characteristics, used primarily as a reference for measuring the performance of other, i.e.
A reference clock may refer to the following:
A cycloid is the curve traced by a point on the rim of a circular wheel as the wheel rolls along a straight line without slippage. A cycloid is a specific form of trochoid and is an example of a roulette, a curve generated by a curve rolling on another curve.
In telecommunication, reference noise is the magnitude of circuit noise chosen as a reference for measurement.
In fiber optic technology, a reference surface is that surface of an optical fiber that is used to contact the transverse-alignment elements of a component such as a connector or mechanical splice.  For telecommunications-grade fibers, the reference surface is the outer surface of the cladding.
In physics and electrical engineering the reflection coefficient is a parameter that describes how much of an electromagnetic wave is reflected by an impedance discontinuity in the transmission medium.  It is equal to the ratio of the amplitude of the reflected wave to the incident wave, with each expressed as phasors.
In telecommunications, reflection loss occurs on a line which results in part of the energy being reflected back to the source. This can occur:
thumb|Reflective array 'billboard' antenna of the AN-270 radar, an early US Army radar system. It consists of 32 horizontal [[half wave dipoles mounted in front of a  high screen reflector.
Reflectance of the surface of a material is its effectiveness in reflecting radiant energy. It is the fraction of incident electromagnetic power that is reflected at an interface.
Refractive index contrast, in an optical fiber, is a measure of the relative difference in refractive index of the core and cladding. The refractive index contrast of an optical fibre, Δ, is typically given by Δ = (n12- n22)/(2n12), where n1 is the maximum refractive index in the core and n2 is the refractive index of the homogeneous cladding.
In telecommunication, the reframing time (or frame-alignment recovery time) is the time interval between the instant at which a valid frame-alignment signal is available at the receiving data terminal equipment and the instant at which frame alignment is established.
Regeneration is renewal through the internal processes of a body or system. Something which embodies this action can be described as regenerative.
In telecommunication, relative transmission level is the ratio of the signal power, at a given point in a transmission system, to a reference signal power.
In telecommunication, release time is the time interval for a circuit to respond when an enabling signal is discontinued, for example:
Reliability, reliable or unreliable may refer to:
Remote access may refer to:
In telecommunication, a remote call forwarding is a service feature that allows calls coming to a remote call forwarding number to be automatically forwarded to any answering location designated by the call receiver.
The Remote Operations Service Element (ROSE) is the OSI service interface, specified in ITU-T Recommendation X.219, ISO/IEC International Standard 9072-1, that (a) provides remote operation capabilities, (b) allows interaction between entities in a distributed application, and (c) upon receiving a remote operations service request, allows the receiving entity to attempt the operation and report the results of the attempt to the requesting entity.
In telecommunications, a repeater is an electronic device that receives a signal and retransmits it. Repeaters are used to extend transmissions so that the signal can cover longer distances or be received on the other side of an obstruction.
In telecommunications, a repeating coil is a voice-frequency transformer characterized by a closed magnetic core, a pair of identical balanced primary (line) windings, a pair of identical but not necessarily balanced secondary (drop) windings, and low transmission loss at voice frequencies.   It permits transfer of voice currents from one winding to another by magnetic induction, matches line and drop impedances, and prevents direct conduction between the line and the drop.
In telecommunication, the term reproduction speed has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term reradiation has the following meanings:
Resolution may refer to:
In physics, resonance is a phenomenon in which a vibrating system or external force drives another system to oscillate with greater amplitude at specific frequencies.
Response may refer to:
In technology, response time is the time a system or functional unit takes to react to a given input.
Responsivity  measures the input–output gain of a detector system. In the specific case of a photodetector, responsivity measures the electrical output per optical input.
Restoration may refer to:
In telecommunications, return loss is the loss of power in the signal returned/reflected by a discontinuity in a transmission line or optical fiber.  This discontinuity can be a mismatch with the terminating load or with a device inserted in the line.
In telecommunication, the term RF power margin has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, the term ringaround has the following meanings:
In telephony, ringdown is a method of signaling an operator in which telephone ringing current is sent over the line to operate a lamp or cause the operation of a self-locking relay known as a drop.
The ringer equivalence number (REN) is a telecommunications measure that represents the electrical loading effect of a telephone ringer on a telephone line.  In the United States, the REN was first defined by U.
In a ring network, such as Token Ring, ring latency is the time required for a signal to propagate once around the ring. Ring latency may be measured in seconds or in bits at the data transmission rate.
In telecommunications, the round-trip delay time (RTD) or round-trip time (RTT) is the length of time it takes for a signal to be sent plus the length of time it takes for an acknowledgment of that signal to be received. This time delay includes the propagation times for the paths between the two communication endpoints.
In telecommunication, the term routing indicator (RI) has the following meanings:
A rubidium standard or rubidium atomic clock is a frequency standard in which a specified hyperfine transition of electrons in rubidium-87 atoms is used to control the output frequency. It is the most inexpensive, compact, and widely used type of atomic clock, used to control the frequency of television stations, cell phone base stations, in test equipment, and global navigation satellite systems like GPS.
Rural Radiotelephone Service (RRTS) provides basic, analog communications service between locations deemed so remote that traditional wireline service or service by other means is not feasible.  RRTS uses channelized radio to provide radiotelephone services such as Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Service between a fixed subscriber location and a remote central office, private line service between a two fixed locations or interconnection between two or more central offices.
Saturation, saturated, unsaturation or unsaturated may refer to:
Scan may refer to:
Schema|Schematic (Band)||}}
In telecommunications, a scrambler is a device that transposes or inverts signals or otherwise encodes a message at the sender's side to make the message unintelligible at a receiver not equipped with an appropriately set descrambling device. Whereas encryption usually refers to operations carried out in the digital domain, scrambling usually refers to operations carried out in the analog domain.
Screen or Screens may refer to:
In telecommunications, a secondary frequency standard is a frequency standard that does not have inherent accuracy, and therefore must be calibrated against a primary frequency standard.
}}
In telecommunication, the term security kernel has the following meanings:
Security management is the identification of an organization's assets (including information assets), followed by the development, documentation, and implementation of policies and procedures for protecting these assets.
In coding theory, especially in telecommunications, a self-synchronizing codeUS Federal Standard 1037C is a uniquely decodable code in which the symbol stream formed by a portion of one code word, or by the overlapped portion of any two adjacent code words, is not a valid code word. Put another way, a set of strings (called &quot;code words&quot;) over an alphabet is called a self-synchronizing code if for each string obtained by concatenating two code words, the substring starting at the second symbol and ending at the second-last symbol does not contain any code word as substring.
In telecommunication, the term semiautomatic switching system has the following meanings:
Sensitivity may refer to:
Separate-channel signaling is a form of signaling in which the whole or a part of one or more channels in a multichannel system is used to provide for supervisory and control signals for the message traffic channels.
In telecommunication, service termination point is the last point of service rendered by a commercial carrier under applicable tariffs.
In telecommunication, the term shadow loss has the following meanings:
Shannon's law may refer to:
Sheath pronounced as , may refer to:
A shield is a piece of personal armour held in the hand or mounted on the wrist or forearm. Shields are used to intercept specific attacks, whether from close-ranged weaponry or projectiles such as arrows, by means of active blocks, instead of providing passive protection.
In digital circuits, a shift register is a cascade of flip flops, sharing the same clock, in which the output of each flip-flop is connected to the 'data' input of the next flip-flop in the chain, resulting in a circuit that shifts by one position the 'bit array' stored in it, 'shifting in' the data present at its input and 'shifting out' the last bit in the array, at each transition of the clock input.
thumb|300px|[[Photon noise simulation. Number of photons per pixel increases from left to right and from upper row to bottom row.
thumb|300px|right|The power of an AM signal plotted against frequency.Key: fc is the [[carrier frequency, fm is the maximum modulation frequency]]
Signal compression is the use of various techniques to reduce the amount of data that must be transmitted from one point to another in order to convey information.
In telecommunication, signaling (signalling in Commonwealth English)  has the following meanings:
The signal-to-crosstalk ratio at a specified point in a circuit is the ratio of the power of the wanted signal to the power of the unwanted signal from another channel.
Signal-to-noise ratio (abbreviated SNR or S/N) is a measure used in science and engineering that compares the level of a desired signal to the level of background noise.
Signal transition, when referring to the modulation of a carrier signal, is a change from one significant condition to another.
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) is an Internet-standard protocol for collecting and organizing information about managed devices on IP networks and for modifying that information to change device behavior.  Devices that typically support SNMP include cable modems, routers, switches, servers, workstations, printers, and more.
Simplex signaling (SX) is signaling in which two conductors are used for a single channel, and a center-tapped coil, or its equivalent, is used to split the signaling current equally between the two conductors. The return path for the current is through ground.
Signal-to-noise and distortion ratio (SINAD) is a measure of the quality of a signal from a communications device, often defined as
Single-frequency signaling (SF) is line signaling (in telephony) in which dial pulses or supervisory signals are conveyed by a single voice-frequency tone in each direction.  SF and similar systems were used in 20th-century carrier systems.
thumb|right|The structure of a typical [[single-mode fiber.
The S interface or S reference point, also known  as S0, is a User–network interface reference point for basic rate access in an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) environment, that
Skew may refer to:
333px|thumb|Formation of a skip-zone using Proplab-Pro 3.
thumb|350px|Sensor slant range (1)
}}
Slave station may refer to:
Slip or SLIP may refer to:
A spatial application is a technological application (such as video) requiring high spatial resolution, possibly at the expense of reduced temporal positioning accuracy, i.e.
Specific detectivity, or D*, for a photodetector is a figure of merit used to characterize performance, equal to the reciprocal of noise-equivalent power (NEP), normalized per square root of the sensor's area and frequency bandwidth (reciprocal of twice the integration time).
thumb|right|350px|Laser speckle on a digital camera image from a green laser pointer. This is a subjective speckle pattern.
In telecommunications, spectral width is the wavelength interval over which the magnitude of all spectral components is equal to or greater than a specified fraction of the magnitude of the component having the maximum value.
In telecommunication, speed of service is the time for a message to be received, for example:
In telecommunication, a spill-forward feature is a service feature, in the operation of an intermediate office, that, acting on incoming trunk service treatment indications, assumes routing control of the call from the originating office. This increases the chances of completion by offering the call to more trunk groups than are available in the originating office.
In telecommunication and radio communication, spread-spectrum techniques are methods by which a signal  (e.g.
In telecommunications, squelch is a circuit function that acts to suppress the audio (or video) output of a receiver in the absence of a sufficiently strong desired input signal.  Squelch is widely used in two-way radios and radio scanners to suppress the sound of channel noise when the radio is not receiving a transmission.
In telecommunication, standard telegraph level (STL) is the power per individual telegraph channel required to yield the standard composite data level.
In telecommunication, a standard test signal is a single-frequency signal with standardized level used for testing the peak power transmission capability and for measuring the total harmonic distortion of circuits or parts of an electric circuit.
The Standard Time and Frequency Signal (STFS) is a Radiocommunication service providing the transmission of specified frequency and time signal, of stated high precision, intended for general reception in the United States and beyond. The radio signals are broadcast on very precise carrier frequencies by the U.
Standby may refer to:
In physics, a standing wave – also known as a stationary wave – is a wave in a medium in which each point on the axis of the wave has an associated constant amplitude.  The locations at which the amplitude is minimum are called nodes, and the locations where the amplitude is maximum are called antinodes.
In radio engineering and telecommunications, standing wave ratio (SWR) is a measure of impedance matching of loads to the characteristic impedance of a transmission line or waveguide. Impedance mismatches result in standing waves along the transmission line, and SWR is defined as the ratio of the partial standing wave's amplitude at an antinode (maximum) to the amplitude at a node (minimum) along the line.
A star coupler is a device that takes in an input signal and splits it into several output signals.
In telecommunication, a start signal is a signal that prepares a device to receive data or to perform a function.
Statement or Statements may refer to:
For an optical fiber, a step-index profile is a refractive index profile characterized by a uniform refractive index within the core and a sharp decrease in refractive index at the core-cladding [so that the cladding is of a lower refractive index.  The step-index profile corresponds to a power-law index profile] with the profile parameter approaching infinity.
A stopband is a band of frequencies, between specified limits, through which a circuit, such as a filter or telephone circuit, does not allow signals to pass, or the attenuation is above the required stopband attenuation level. Depending on application, the required attenuation within the stopband may typically be a value between 20 and 120 dB higher than the nominal passband attenuation, which often is 0 dB.
In telecommunication, a stop signal is a signal that marks the end of part of a transmission, for example:
In telecommunication, a store-and-forward switching center is a message switching center in which a message is accepted from the originating user, i.e.
Stressed environment:  In radio communications, an environment that is under the influence of extrinsic factors that degrade communications integrity, such as when (a) the benign communications medium is disturbed by natural or man-made events (such as an intentional nuclear burst), (b) the received signal is degraded by natural or man-made interference (such as jamming signals or co-channel interference), (c) an interfering signal can reconfigure the network, and/or (d) an adversary threatens successful communications, in which case radio signals may be encrypted in order to deny the adversary an intelligible message, traffic flow information, network information, or automatic link establishment (ALE) control information.
In telecommunication, the term sublayer has the following meanings:
In optical fiber technology, the substitution method is a method of measuring the transmission loss of a fiber. It consists of:
In telecommunication, the term summation check (sum check) has the following meanings:
}}
Reduced-carrier transmission is an amplitude modulation (AM) transmission in which the carrier signal level is reduced to reduce wasted electrical power.  Suppressed-carrier transmission is a special case in which the carrier level is reduced below that required for demodulation by a normal receiver.
Diving [[grebe creates surface waves|thumb]]
Survivability is the ability to remain alive or continue to exist.  The term has more specific meaning in certain contexts.
In telephony, a Switched loop is a circuit that automatically releases a connection from an attendant console or switchboard, once the connection has been made to the appropriate terminal.
Synchronism is deliberately achieved coincidence at a specified point of time.
In telecommunication, the term synchronizing has the following meanings:
A synchronous orbit is an orbit in which an orbiting body (usually a satellite) has a period equal to the average rotational period of the body being orbited (usually a planet), and in the same direction of rotation as that body.
In telecommunications, the term system integrity has the following meanings:
The system lifecycle in systems engineering is a view of a system or proposed system that addresses all phases of its existence to include system conception, design and development, production and/or construction, distribution, operation, maintenance and support, retirement, phase-out and disposal.
Systems control, in a communications system, is the control and implementation of a set of functions that:
System design is the process of defining the  architecture,  modules, interfaces, and data for a system to satisfy specified requirements. Systems design could be seen as the application of systems theory to product development.
Tactical communications are military communications in which information of any kind, especially orders and military intelligence, are conveyed from one command, person, or place to another upon a battlefield, particularly during the conduct of combat. It includes any kind of delivery of information, whether verbal, written, visual or auditory, and can be sent in a variety of ways.
In telecommunication, a tactical communications system is a communications system that (a) is used within, or in direct support of, tactical forces, (b) is designed to meet the requirements of changing tactical situations and varying environmental conditions, (c) provides securable communications, such as voice, data, and video, among mobile users to facilitate command and control within, and in support of, tactical forces, and (d) usually requires extremely short installation times, usually on the order of hours, in order to meet the requirements of frequent relocation.
In telecommunication, a tactical data information link—A (TADIL—A) is a netted link in which one unit acts as a net control station and interrogates each unit by roll call. Once interrogated, that unit transmits its data to the net.
thumb|Paper tape relay operation at US [[Federal Aviation Administration|FAA's Honolulu flight service station in 1964]]
}}
In telecommunication, a technical control facility (TCF) is a telecommunications facility, or a designated and specially configured part thereof, that (a) contains the equipment necessary for ensuring fast, reliable, and secure exchange of information, (b) typically includes distribution frames and associated panels, jacks, and switches and monitoring, test, conditioning, and orderwire equipment, and (c) allows telecommunications systems control personnel to exercise operational control of communications paths and facilities, make quality analyses of communications and communications channels, [operations and maintenance] functions, recognize and correct deteriorating conditions, restore disrupted communications, provide requested on-call circuits, and take or direct such actions as may be required and practical to provide effective telecommunications services.
In telecommunication, a telecommunications service is a service provided by a telecommunications provider, or a specified set of user-information transfer capabilities provided to a group of users by a telecommunications system.
A teleconference or teleseminar is the live exchange and mass articulation of information among several persons and machines remote from one another but linked by a telecommunications system. Terms such as audio conferencing, telephone conferencing and phone conferencing are also sometimes used to refer to teleconferencing.
Teletraining is training that
== ISDN ==
In telecommunication, the term terminal equipment has the following meanings:
In telecommunication, a ternary signal is a signal that can assume, at any given instant, one of three states or significant conditions, such as power level, phase position, pulse duration, or frequency.
Thermodynamic temperature is the absolute measure of temperature and is one of the principal parameters of thermodynamics.
In telecommunications, a third-order intercept point (IP3 or TOI) is a measure for weakly nonlinear systems and devices, for example receivers, linear amplifiers and mixers. It is based on the idea that the device nonlinearity can be modeled using a low-order polynomial, derived by means of Taylor series expansion.
Threshold may refer to:
In telecommunication, a time-assignment speech interpolation (TASI) was an analog technique used on certain long transmission links to increase voice-transmission capacity.
In telecommunication, time code ambiguity is the shortest interval between successive repetitions of the same time code value.
A minimum spanning tree (MST) or minimum weight spanning tree is a subset of the edges of a connected, edge-weighted undirected graph that connects all the vertices together, without any cycles and with the minimum possible total edge weight. That is, it is a spanning tree whose sum of edge weights is as small as possible.
Time-division multiplexing (TDM) is a method of transmitting and receiving independent signals over a common signal path by means of synchronized switches at each end of the transmission line so that each signal appears on the line only a fraction of time in an alternating pattern. It is used when the data rate of the transmission medium exceeds that of signal to be transmitted.
A time-domain reflectometer (TDR) is an electronic instrument that uses time-domain reflectometry to characterize and locate faults in metallic cables (for example, twisted pair wire or coaxial cable). It can also be used to locate discontinuities in a connector, printed circuit board, or any other electrical path.
A time standard is a specification for measuring time: either the rate at which time passes; or points in time; or both.  In modern times, several time specifications have been officially recognized as standards, where formerly they were matters of custom and practice.
A T-interface  or T reference point is used for basic rate access in an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) environment.  It is a User–network interface reference point that is characterized by a four-wire, 144 kbit/s (2B+D) user rate.
In telecommunication, a toll switching trunk or toll connecting trunkThe Digital Future, 1979 Toll connecting trunk is a trunk connecting one or more end offices to a toll center as the first stage of concentration for intertoll or long distance traffic.
The total harmonic distortion, or THD, of a signal is a measurement of the harmonic distortion present and is defined as the ratio of the sum of the powers of all harmonic components to the power of the fundamental frequency. THD is used to characterize the linearity of audio systems and the power quality of electric power systems.
In telecommunication networks, traffic intensity is a measure of the average occupancy of a server or resource during a specified period of time, normally a busy hour. It is measured in traffic units (erlangs) and defined as the ratio of the time during which a facility is cumulatively occupied to the time this facility is available for occupancy.
A transceiver is a device comprising both a transmitter and a receiver that are combined and share common circuitry or a single housing. When no circuitry is common between transmit and receive functions, the device is a transmitter-receiver.
Transmission may refer to:
In telecommunication, the term transmission block has the following meanings:
In a telecommunications system, a transmission-level point (TLP) is a test point or interface, i.e.
thumb|One of the most common types of transmission line, [[coaxial cable. ]]
energe
In telecommunication, transmit-after-receive time delay is the time interval from removal of RF energy at the local receiver input until the local transmitter is automatically keyed on and the transmitted rf signal amplitude has increased to 90% of its steady-state value.  An Exception: High-frequency (HF) transceiver equipment is normally not designed with an interlock between receiver squelch and transmitter on-off key.
thumb|right|120px|A [[Ontario Highway 407|Highway 407 toll transponder]]
Transposition may refer to:
In telecommunications, a transverse redundancy check (TRC) or vertical redundancy check is a redundancy check for synchronized parallel bits applied once per bit time, across the bit streams.  This requires additional parallel channels for the check bit or bits.
A tree structure or tree diagram is a way of representing the hierarchical nature of a structure in a graphical form. It is named a &quot;tree structure&quot; because the classic representation resembles a tree, even though the chart is generally upside down compared to an actual tree, with the &quot;root&quot; at the top and the &quot;leaves&quot; at the bottom.
The troposphere is the lowest portion of Earth's atmosphere, and is also where nearly all weather takes place. It contains approximately 75% of the atmosphere's mass and 99% of the total mass of water vapor and aerosols.
In telecommunication, a tropospheric wave is a radio wave that is propagated by reflection from a place of abrupt change in the dielectric constant, or its gradient, in the troposphere.  In some cases, a ground wave may be so altered that new components appear to arise from reflection in regions of rapidly changing dielectric constant.
Trunk may refer to:
The trusted computing base (TCB) of a computer system is the set of all hardware, firmware, and/or software components that are critical to its security, in the sense that bugs or vulnerabilities occurring inside the TCB might jeopardize the security properties of the entire system. By contrast, parts of a computer system outside the TCB must not be able to misbehave in a way that would leak any more privileges than are granted to them in accordance to the security policy.
A turnkey or a turnkey project (also spelled turn-key) is a type of project that is constructed so that it can be sold to any buyer as a completed product. This is contrasted with build to order, where the constructor builds an item to the buyer's exact specifications, or when an incomplete product is sold with the assumption that the buyer would complete it.
thumb| [[Interleaved 2 of 5 barcode]]
The U.S.
Telephony ( ) is the field of technology involving the development, application, and deployment of telecommunication services for the purpose of electronic transmission of voice, fax, or data, between distant parties. The history of telephony is intimately linked to the invention and development of the telephone.
The U interface or U reference point is a Basic Rate Interface (BRI) in the local loop of an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN). It is characterized by the use of a 2-wire transmission system that connects the network termination type 1 (NT1) on the customer's premises and the line termination (LT) in the carrier's local exchange.
Unavailability is the probability that an item will not operate correctly at a given time and under specified conditions. It opposes availability.
An uninterruptible power supply, also uninterruptible power source, UPS or battery/flywheel backup, is an electrical apparatus that provides emergency power to a load when the input power source or mains power fails. A UPS differs from an auxiliary or emergency power system or standby generator in that it will provide near-instantaneous protection from input power interruptions, by supplying energy stored in batteries, supercapacitors, or flywheels.
Universal Time (UT) is a time standard based on Earth's rotation. It is a modern continuation of Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), i.
The abstract factory pattern provides a way to encapsulate a group of individual factories that have a common theme without specifying their concrete classes. In normal usage, the client software creates a concrete implementation of the abstract factory and then uses the generic interface of the factory to create the concrete objects that are part of the theme.
In telecommunications a link is a communications channel that connects two or more devices. This link may be an actual physical link or it may be a logical link that uses one or more actual physical links.
Validation may refer to:
In telecommunication, a variable length buffer is a buffer into which data may be entered at one rate and removed at another rate without changing the data sequence.
A video teleconferencing unit (VTU) is a piece of electrical equipment that performs videoconferencing functions, such as the coding and decoding of audio and video signals and multiplexing of video, audio, data, and control signals, and that usually does not include Input/Output (I/O) devices, cryptographic devices, network interface equipment, network connections, or the communications network to which the unit is connected.
View, or variants, may refer to:
thumb|right|300px|Viewdata Graphics used in the experimental phone directory of Post Office Telecommunications in 1977. The image is a graphical representation of the Post Office/British Telecom Research laboratories (Adastral Park) in Suffolk, England.
In telecommunication, a virtual call capability, sometimes called a virtual call facility, is a service feature in which:
A virtual circuit (VC) is a means of transporting data over a packet switched computer network in such a way that it appears as though there is a dedicated physical layer link between the source and destination end systems of this data. The term virtual circuit is synonymous with virtual connection and virtual channel.
Virtual storage can refer to:
In open systems, a virtual terminal (VT) is an application service that:
A voice frequency (VF) or voice band is one of the frequencies, within part of the audio range, that is being used for the transmission of speech.
In telecommunication, a voice frequency primary patch bay (VF) is a patching facility that provides the first appearance of local-user VF circuits in the technical control facility (TCF).
In electric power transmission and distribution, volt-ampere reactive (var) is a unit by which reactive power is expressed in an AC electric power system. Reactive power exists in an AC circuit when the current and voltage are not in phase.
In telecommunications, a voice operated switch, also known as VOX or Voice Operated eXchange, is a switch that operates when sound over a certain threshold is detected. It is usually used to turn on a transmitter or recorder when someone speaks and turn it off when they stop speaking.
Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) is a client–server text searching system that uses the ANSI Standard Z39.50 Information Retrieval Service Definition and Protocol Specifications for Library Applications&quot; (Z39.
In telecommunication, a Warner exemption is a statutory exemption pertaining to the acquisition of telecommunications systems that meet the exclusionary criteria of the Warner Amendment, Public Law 97-86, 1 December 1981, which is also known as the Brooks Bill.
A waveguide is a structure that guides waves, such as electromagnetic waves or sound, with minimal loss of energy by restricting expansion to one dimension or two. This is a similar effect to waves of water constrained within a canal, or why guns have barrels that restrict hot gas expansion to maximize energy transfer to their bullets.
The wave impedance of an electromagnetic wave is the ratio of the transverse components of the electric and magnetic fields (the transverse components being those at right angles to the direction of propagation). For a transverse-electric-magnetic (TEM) plane wave traveling through a homogeneous medium, the wave impedance is everywhere equal to the intrinsic impedance of the medium.
In telecommunication, the term white facsimile transmission has the following meanings:
Wide Area Telephone Service (WATS) was a flat-rate long distance service offering for customer dial-type telecommunications between a given customer phone (also known as a &quot;station&quot;) and stations within specified geographic rate areas employing a single telephone line between the customer location and the serving central office. Each access line could be arranged for outward (OUT-WATS) or inward (IN-WATS) service, or both.
In telecommunication, the term wideband modem has the following meanings:
In software, a wildcard character is a kind of placeholder represented by a single character, such as an asterisk (), which can be interpreted as a number of literal characters or an empty string. It is often used in file searches so the full name need not be typed.
Wink is used both in connection with DC signaling on a trunk, and with indicator lamps on a key telephone.
Wireless mobility management: in Personal Communications Service (PCS), the assigning and controlling of wireless links for terminal network connections. Wireless mobility management provides an &quot;alerting&quot; function for call completion to a wireless terminal, monitors wireless link performance to determine when an automatic link transfer is required, and coordinates link transfers between wireless access interfaces.
A workstation or work station may refer to:
In fax systems, the X-dimension of recorded spot is the effective recorded spot dimension measured in the direction of the recorded line.  By &quot;effective recorded spot dimension&quot; is meant the largest center-to-center spacing between recorded spots, which gives minimum peak-to-peak variation of density of the recorded line.
In a single-mode optical fiber, the zero-dispersion wavelength is the wavelength or wavelengths at which material dispersion and waveguide dispersion cancel one another. In all silica-based optical fibers, minimum material dispersion occurs naturally at a wavelength of approximately 1300 nm.
Zip-cord is a type of electrical cable with  two or more conductors held together by an insulating jacket that can be easily separated simply by pulling apart.  The term is also used with optical fiber cables consisting of two optical fibers joined in a similar manner.
Absolute pitch (AP), widely referred to as perfect pitch, is a rare auditory phenomenon characterized by the ability of a person to identify or re-create a given musical note without the benefit of a reference tone. PDF Document
200 px|right|thumb|Cover of CHQ’s commercial reprint of the MIL-STD-188 Military Standards series
thumb|The popular puzzle [[Rubik's cube invented in 1974 by Ernő Rubik has been used as an illustration of permutation groups.]]
Stable nuclides are nuclides that are not radioactive and so (unlike radionuclides) do not spontaneously undergo radioactive decay. When such nuclides are referred to in relation to specific elements, they are usually termed stable isotopes.
Terminal may refer to:
Teletype may refer to:
Craig Barrett may refer to:
Storage may refer to:
Dick Tracy is an American comic strip featuring Dick Tracy (originally Plainclothes Tracy),American Pickers, Urban Cowboys a tough and intelligent police detective created by Chester Gould. The strip made its debut on October 4, 1931 in the Detroit Mirror.
KWIC is an acronym for Key Word In Context, the most common format for concordance lines. The term KWIC was first coined by Hans Peter Luhn.
An accrual bond is a fixed-interest bond that is issued at its face value and repaid at the end of the maturity period together with the accrued interest. In Germany, the accrued interest is compounded.
Aftermarket may refer to:
Allotment  may refer to:
Subscription refers to the process of investors signing up and committing to invest in a financial instrument, before the actual closing of the purchase.
A capital market is a financial market in which long-term debt or equity-backed securities are bought and sold. Capital markets are defined as markets in which money is provided for periods longer than a year.
The primary market is the part of the capital market that deals with issuing of new securities. Primary markets create long term instruments through which corporate entities raise funds from the capital market.
A financial market is a market in which people trade financial securities, commodities, and other fungible items of value at low transaction costs and at prices that reflect supply and demand. Securities include stocks and bonds, and commodities include precious metals or agricultural products.
Bond, bonds, bonded, or bonding may refer to:
Bonds can refer to any of several things:
Compact Disc Digital Audio (CDDA or CD-DA) is the standard format for audio compact discs. The standard is defined in the Red Book, one of a series of &quot;Rainbow Books&quot; (named for their binding colors) that contain the technical specifications for all Compact Disc formats.
The major system (also called the phonetic number system, phonetic mnemonic system, or Herigone's mnemonic system) is a  mnemonic technique used to aid in memorizing numbers.
Nearest neighbor}}
A signal generator is an electronic device that generates repeating or non-repeating electronic signals in either the analog or the digital domain. It is generally used in designing, testing, troubleshooting, and repairing electronic or electroacoustic devices, though it often has artistic uses as well.
In mathematics, the Klein four-group (or just Klein group or Vierergruppe (), often symbolized by the letter V or as K4) is the group , the direct product of two copies of the cyclic group of order 2. It was named Vierergruppe by Felix Klein in 1884.
A dividend is a payment made by a corporation to its shareholders, usually as a distribution of profits. When a corporation earns a profit or surplus, the corporation is able to re-invest the profit in the business (called retained earnings) and pay a proportion of the profit as a dividend to shareholders.
Precision is a description of random errors, a measure of statistical variability.
Cold-blooded is an informal term for one or more of a group of characteristics that determine an animal's thermophysiology. These include:
The Bloomsbury Group—or Bloomsbury Set—was an influential group of associated English writers, intellectuals, philosophers and artists,Fargis, p. 262 the best known members of which included Virginia Woolf, John Maynard Keynes, E.
Gentrification is a process of renovation of deteriorated urban neighborhoods by means of the influx of more affluent residents.Lees, Loretta, Tom Slater, and Elvin K.
thumb|[[Timber frame of a modern building under construction, also using trusses]]
Electrical impedance is the measure of the opposition that a circuit presents to a current when a voltage is applied. The term complex impedance may be used interchangeably.
Lidar (also called LIDAR, LiDAR, and LADAR) is a surveying method that measures distance to a target by illuminating that target with a pulsed laser light, and measuring the reflected pulses with a sensor. Differences in laser return times and wavelengths can then be used to make digital 3D-representations of the target.
Data processing is, generally, &quot;the collection and manipulation of items of data to produce meaningful information.&quot;
The Chicago River is a system of rivers and canals with a combined length of  that runs through the city of Chicago, including its center (the Chicago Loop).&quot;Where is the Chicago River?
In electronics, gain is a measure of the ability of a two-port circuit (often an amplifier) to increase the power or amplitude of a signal from the input to the output port by adding energy converted from some power supply to the signal. It is usually defined as the mean ratio of the signal amplitude or power at the output port to the amplitude or power at the input port.
Loss may refer to:
The Brothers Grimm ( or ), Jacob (1785–1863) and Wilhelm Grimm (1786–1859), were German academics, philologists, cultural researchers, lexicographers and authors who together collected and published folklore during the 19th century. They were among the best-known storytellers of folk tales, and popularized stories such as &quot;Cinderella&quot; (&quot;&quot;), &quot;The Frog Prince&quot; (&quot;&quot;), &quot;The Goose-Girl&quot; (&quot;Die Gänsemagd&quot;), &quot;Hansel and Gretel&quot; (&quot;&quot;), &quot;Rapunzel&quot;, &quot;Rumpelstiltskin&quot; (&quot;&quot;), &quot;Sleeping Beauty&quot; (&quot;&quot;), and &quot;Snow White&quot; (&quot;&quot;).
* synth-pop
In graph theory, the shortest path problem is the problem of finding a path between two vertices (or nodes) in a graph such that the sum of the weights of its constituent edges is minimized.
Von Neumann machine may refer to:
Path or PATH may refer to:
}}
In physics, intensity is the power transferred per unit area, where the area is measured on the plane perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the energy. In the SI system, it has units watts per square metre (W/m2).
A twin prime is a prime number that is either 2 less or 2 more than another prime number—for example, either member of the twin prime pair (41, 43).  In other words, a twin prime is a prime that has a prime gap of  two.
Collaborative software or groupware is application software designed to help people involved in a common task to achieve their  goals. One of the earliest definitions of collaborative software is &quot;intentional group processes plus software to support them&quot;.
Three submarines of the United States Navy have borne the name USS Skate, named for a type of ray.
Orientalium Ecclesiarum is the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Eastern Catholic Churches. One of the shortest conciliar documents, it was approved by a vote of 2,110 to 39 and promulgated by Pope Paul VI on November 21, 1964.
A synthetic radioisotope is a radionuclide that is not found in nature: no natural process or mechanism exists which produces it, or it is so unstable that it decays away in a very short period of time. Examples include technetium-95 and promethium-146.
A trace radioisotope is a radioisotope that occurs naturally in trace amounts (i.e.
Ad gentes is the Second Vatican Council's Decree on the Missionary Activity of the Church. The title is Latin for &quot;To the Nations,&quot; and is from the first line of the decree, as is customary with Roman Catholic documents.
*Elector of Hanover}}
The unconscious mind (or the unconscious) consists of the processes in the mind which occur automatically and are not available to introspection, and include thought processes, memories, interests, and motivations.
Project MKUltra, also called the CIA's mind control program, is the code name given to a program of experiments on human subjects, at times illegal, designed and undertaken by the United States Central Intelligence Agency. Experiments on humans were intended to identify and develop drugs and procedures to be used in interrogations and torture, in order to weaken the individual to force confessions through mind control.
Plastic surgery is a surgical specialty involving the restoration, reconstruction, or alteration of the human body. It can be divided into two categories.
thumb|First edition (publ. [[Hodder &amp; Stoughton)]]
The spy film genre deals with the subject of fictional espionage, either in a realistic way (such as the adaptations of John le Carré) or as a basis for fantasy (such as many James Bond films). Many novels in the spy fiction genre have been adapted as films, including works by John Buchan, le Carré, Ian Fleming (Bond) and Len Deighton.
The Recording Artists' Coalition (RAC) is an American music industry organization that represents recording artists, and attempts to defend their rights and interests. Compare and contrast with the RIAA, which represents the recording industry.
The Unknown God or Agnostos Theos () is a theory by Eduard Norden first published in 1913 that proposes, based on the Christian Apostle Paul's Areopagus speech in Acts , that in addition to the twelve main gods and the innumerable lesser deities, ancient Greeks worshipped a deity they called &quot;Agnostos Theos&quot;, that is: &quot;Unknown God&quot;, which Norden called &quot;Un-Greek&quot;. In Athens, there was a temple specifically dedicated to that god and very often Athenians would swear &quot;in the name of the Unknown God&quot; ( Ne ton Agnoston).
Group process consultation consists of activities designed to increase group awareness and understanding, so that the group or organization can take steps to improve the way that its members work together.
The Oneida Community was a Perfectionist religious communal society founded by John Humphrey Noyes in 1848 in Oneida, New York. The community believed that Jesus had already returned in AD 70, making it possible for them to bring about Jesus's millennial kingdom themselves, and be free of sin and perfect in this world, not just in Heaven (a belief called Perfectionism).
Grammatical person, in linguistics, is the grammatical distinction between deictic references to participant(s) in an event; typically the distinction is between the speaker (first person), the addressee (second person), and others (third person). Put in simple colloquial English, first person is that which includes the speaker, namely, &quot;I,&quot; &quot;we,&quot; &quot;me,&quot; and &quot;us,&quot; second person is the person or people to whom are spoken, literally, &quot;you,&quot; and third person includes all that is not listed above.
The Wheel of time or wheel of history (also known as Kalachakra) is a concept found in several religious traditions and philosophies, notably religions of Indian origin such as Hinduism, Sikhism, and Buddhism, which regard time as cyclical and consisting of repeating ages.  Many other cultures contain belief in a similar concept: notably, the Q'ero Indians in Peru, as well as the Hopi Indians of Arizona.
Flash Gordon is the hero of a space opera adventure comic strip created by and originally drawn by Alex Raymond.&quot;Flash Gordon&quot;, in Guy Haley (editor) Sci-Fi Chronicles : A Visual History of the Galaxy's Greatest Science Fiction .
Reification is making something real, bringing something into being, or making something concrete.
}}
}}
__NOTOC__
Homeland security is an American umbrella term for &quot;the national effort to ensure a homeland that is safe, secure, and resilient against terrorism and other hazards where American interests, aspirations, and ways of life can thrive to the national effort to prevent terrorist attacks within the United States, reduce the vulnerability of the U.S.
{|
The PS Lady Elgin was a wooden-hulled sidewheel steamship that sank in Lake Michigan off Highwood, Illinois after she was rammed in a gale by the schooner Augusta in the early hours of September 8, 1860. The passenger manifest was lost with the collision, but the sinking of the Lady Elgin resulted in the loss of about 300 livesJournal of Board of Supervising Inspectors, Vol 1, page 43, National Archives Record Group 41 in what was called &quot;one of the greatest marine horrors on record.
The Chicago flood occurred on April 13, 1992, when the damaged wall of a utility tunnel beneath the Chicago River opened into a breach which flooded basements and underground facilities throughout the Chicago Loop with an estimated  of water.
Salmonella  is a genus of rod-shaped (bacillus) gram-negative bacteria of the Enterobacteriaceae family. The two species of Salmonella are Salmonella enterica and Salmonella bongori.
Paul Julius Freiherr von Reuter (Baron von Reuter; 21 July 1816 – 25 February 1899) was a German-born, British entrepreneur who was a pioneer of telegraphy and news reporting.Paul Julius Reuter, Encyclopedia of World Biography, 2004, The Gale Group Inc.
In computing, a server is a computer program or a device that provides functionality for other programs or devices, called &quot;clients&quot;. This architecture is called the client–server model, and a single overall computation is distributed across multiple processes or devices.
USS Seawolf may refer to:
Regierungsbezirk (, often abbreviated to Reg.-Bez.
Rastafari, sometimes termed Rastafarianism, is an Abrahamic religion. Classified as a new religious movement, it developed in Jamaica during the 1930s.
}}
A garden is a planned space, usually outdoors, set aside for the display, cultivation, and enjoyment of plants and other forms of nature. The garden can incorporate both natural and man-made materials.
Pot may refer to:
Historical fiction is a literary genre in which the plot takes place in a setting located in the past. Historical fiction can be an umbrella term; though commonly used as a synonym for describing the historical novel; the term can be applied to works in other narrative formats, such as those in the performing and visual arts like theatre, opera, cinema and television, as well as video games and graphic novels.
)
Amiga demos are demos created for the Commodore Amiga home computer.
Two submarines of the United States Navy have been named USS Tang, after the tang, or surgeonfish, especially of the several West Indian species.
A security is a tradable financial asset. The term commonly refers to any form of financial instrument, but its legal definition varies by jurisdiction.
Beam may refer to:
Data transmission or digital communications is the transfer of data (a digital bit stream or a digitized analog signal) over a point-to-point or point-to-multipoint communication channel. Examples of such channels are copper wires, optical fibers, wireless communication channels, storage media and computer buses.
In linear algebra, the dual numbers extend the real numbers by adjoining one new element ε with the property ε2 = 0  (ε is nilpotent). The collection of dual numbers forms a particular two-dimensional commutative unital associative algebra over the real numbers.
Resettlement}}
An entity is something that exists as itself, as a subject or as an object, actually or potentially, concretely or abstractly, physically or not.  It need not be of material existence.
In Greek mythology, Chiron (pronounced  ; also Cheiron or Kheiron;  &quot;hand&quot;Compare the dactyls, &quot;fingers&quot;, ancient masters of the art of metallurgy and magical healers.) was held to be the superlative centaur amongst his brethren, as he was called as the &quot;wisest and justest of all the centaurs&quot;.
Kotowice}}
The Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms is a compendium of terminology used by the United States Department of Defense (DOD).
The 1948 Summer Olympics, officially known as the Games of the XIV Olympiad, were an international multi-sport event which was held in London, England, United Kingdom. After a 12-year hiatus because of World War II, these were the first Summer Olympics since the 1936 Games in Berlin.
Peanuts is a syndicated daily and Sunday American comic strip written and illustrated by Charles M. Schulz, which ran from October 2, 1950, to February 13, 2000, continuing in reruns afterward.
Norman or Normans may refer to:
Rollo was the founder and first ruler of the Viking principality in what soon became known as Normandy.
Western Christianity is a term referring to the scope of Christianity which developed in the areas of the former Western Roman Empire. Western Christianity consists of the Latin Church of the Roman Catholic Church (in contrast to the Eastern churches in communion with Rome), the Waldensians, Hussites, and a wide variety of Protestant denominations, including Anglicanism, Anabaptism, Calvinism, Lutheranism, and others.
Eastern Christianity consists of four main church families: the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Oriental Orthodox churches, the Assyrian Church of the East, and the Eastern Catholic churches (that are in communion with Rome but still maintain an Eastern liturgy). The term is used in contrast with Western Christianity (namely the Latin Church and Protestantism).
Great Lent, or the Great Fast, (Greek: Μεγάλη Τεσσαρακοστή or Μεγάλη Νηστεία, meaning &quot;Great 40 Days,&quot; and &quot;Great Fast,&quot; respectively) is the most important fasting season in the church year in the Byzantine Rite of the Eastern Orthodox Church (including Western Rite Orthodoxy) and the Eastern Catholic Churches, which prepares Christians for the greatest feast of the church year, Pascha (Easter).
thumb|right|upright|A tower of confiscated smuggled weapons about to be set ablaze in [[Nairobi, Kenya]]
IlyaVladimir of NovgorodIziaslav ISviatoslav IIVsevolod IIgor YaroslavichVyacheslav Yaroslavich
Estrid (Old Norse: Æstriðr, Ástríðr) was a rich and powerful 11th-century Swedish woman whose long family saga has been recorded on five or six runestones in Uppland, Sweden. This Estrid was the maternal grandmother of the chieftain Jarlabanke of the Jarlabanke clan.
In the card game contract bridge, the Losing-Trick Count (LTC) is a method of hand evaluation used in situations where a trump suit has been established and shape and fit are more significant than high card points (HCP) in determining the optimum level of the contract. The method is not suitable for notrump or misfit hands; also, the trump suit must be at least eight cards in length with no partner holding less than three.
Developing is a 1993 short film directed by Marya Cohn, about the relationship between a girl and her single mother, who has breast cancer. The film stars Natalie Portman in her first film role and Frances Conroy.
Ben-Hur or Ben Hur may refer to:
}}
A calliope (see below for pronunciation) is a musical instrument that produces sound by sending a gas, originally steam or more recently compressed air, through large whistles—originally locomotive whistles.
Sudovian (also known as Yotvingian, Yatvingian, or Jatvingian) is an extinct western Baltic language of Northeastern Europe. Closely related to the Old Prussian language, it was formerly spoken southwest of the Nemunas river in what is now Lithuania, east of Galindia and north of Yotvingia, and by exiles in East Prussia.
Standard American is a  bidding system for the game of bridge widely used in North America and elsewhere. Owing to the popularization of the game by Charles Goren in the 1950s and 1960s, its earliest versions were sometimes referred to simply as 'Goren'.
Data mining  is the computing process of discovering patterns in large data sets involving methods at the intersection of machine learning, statistics, and database systems. It is an interdisciplinary subfield of computer science.
BUICK MOTOR DIVISION HISTORY by Lawrence R. Gustin, 1993 - Buick Motor Division
thumb|Screenshot of MIDI Maze ([[Atari ST)]]
Irrigation is the application of controlled amounts of water to plants at needed intervals. Irrigation helps grow agricultural crops, maintain landscapes, and revegetate disturbed soils in dry areas and during periods of inadequate rainfall.
Cost accounting is a process of collecting, recording, classifying, analyzing, summarizing, allocating and evaluating various alternative courses of action &amp; control of costs. Its goal is to advise the management on the most appropriate course of action based on the cost efficiency and capability.
In management accounting or managerial accounting, managers use the provisions of accounting information in order to better inform themselves before they decide matters within their organizations, which aids their management and performance of control functions.
A fence is a structure that encloses an area, typically outdoors, and is usually constructed from posts that are connected by boards, wire, rails or netting.  Sometimes referred to as a Dutch Wall.
Barbed wire, also known as barb wire, less often as bob wire Glidden Steel called its product &quot;Barb Wire&quot;. &quot;In my book a pioneer is a man who turned all the grass upside down, strung bob-wire over the dust that was left, poisoned the water, cut down the trees, killed the Indian who owned the land and called it progress.
The Aryan race was a racial grouping commonly used in the period of the late 19th century to the mid-20th century to describe peoples of European and Western Asian heritage. It derives from the idea that the original speakers of the Indo-European languages and their descendants up to the present day constitute a distinctive race or subrace of the putative Caucasian race.
) Gianni Infantino
A bass drum, or kick drum, is a large drum that produces a note of low definite or indefinite pitch.
A crash cymbal is a type of cymbal that produces a loud, sharp &quot;crash&quot; and is used mainly for occasional accents, as opposed to in ostinato.  They can be mounted on a stand and played with a drum stick, or by hand in pairs.
Inter mirifica On the Means of Social Communication is a decree made by the council at Vatican II and it was promulgated on December 4, 1963 Franz-Josef Eilers, “Church and Social Communication: 40 years of Inter Mirifica and beyond,” Ad Veritatem 5 (2005), 1. by Pope Paul VI.
Dignitatis humanae (The document is known by its incipit, the first words of the document in the original Latin text, as is customary for similar Catholic Church documents.) is the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Religious Freedom.
Nostra aetate () is the Declaration on the Relation of the Church with Non-Christian Religions of the Second Vatican Council.  Passed by a vote of 2,221 to 88 of the assembled bishops, this declaration was promulgated on 28 October 1965, by Pope Paul VI.
Gravissimum educationis is the Second Vatican Council's Declaration on Christian Education.  It was promulgated on 28 October 1965 by Pope Paul VI, following approval by the assembled bishops by a vote of 2,290 to 35.
In linguistics, grammatical number is a grammatical category of nouns, pronouns, and adjective and verb agreement that expresses count distinctions (such as &quot;one&quot;, &quot;two&quot;, or &quot;three or more&quot;).. In many languages, including English, the number categories are singular and plural.
The San Luis Valley is an extensive high-altitude depositional basin in the U.S.
Holy Trinity Cathedral (Sameba), Kartlis Deda,Abanotubani, view from Narikala,Narikala Fortress
In logic, mathematics, and computer science, the arity  of a function or operation is the number of arguments or operands that the function takes. The arity of a relation (or predicate) is the dimension of the domain in the corresponding Cartesian product.
In mathematics, the closure of a subset S of points in a topological space consists of all points in S together with all limit points of S. The closure of S may equivalently be defined as the union of S and its boundary, and also as the intersection of all closed sets containing S.
Naturalization (or naturalisation) is the legal act or process by which a non-citizen in a country may acquire citizenship or nationality of that country. It may be done by a statute, without any effort on the part of the individual, or it may involve an application and approval by legal authorities.
thumb|right|350px|The [[real numbers form a topological group under addition]]
Year 1286 (MCCLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Lincoln Park is an urban park in Chicago, which gave its name to the Lincoln Park, Chicago community area.
}}
Phonics is a method for teaching reading and writing of the English language by developing learners' phonemic awareness—the ability to hear, identify, and manipulate phonemes—in order to teach the correspondence between these sounds and the spelling patterns (graphemes) that represent them.
Sex education is instruction on issues relating to human sexuality, including emotional relations and responsibilities, human sexual anatomy, sexual activity, sexual reproduction, age of consent, reproductive health, reproductive rights, safe sex, birth control and sexual abstinence. Sex education that covers all of these aspects is known as comprehensive sex education.
Diversity or Diversify or Diverse may refer to:
Sumeria may refer to:
Pankisi () or the Pankisi Gorge (, Pankisis Kheoba) is a valley region in Georgia, in the upper reaches of River Alazani just south of Georgia’s historic region of Tusheti between Mt Borbalo and the ruined 17th-century fortress of Bakhtrioni. Administratively, it is included in the Akhmeta municipality of the Kakheti region.
The First Amendment or Amendment One/1 may refer to the:
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) uses three-letter abbreviation country codeshttp://www.olympic.
Acupressure [from Latin acus &quot;needle&quot; (see acuity) + pressure (n.)Acupressure Online Etymology Dictionary] is an alternative medicine technique similar in principle to acupuncture.
Continuity of Operations (COOP) is a United States federal government initiative, required by U.S.
The history of Belgium predates the founding of the modern state of that name in 1830. Belgium's history is intertwined with those of its neighbours: the Netherlands, Germany, France and Luxembourg.
A logarithmic spiral, equiangular spiral or growth spiral is a self-similar spiral curve which often appears in nature. The logarithmic spiral was first described by Descartes and later extensively investigated by Jacob Bernoulli, who called it Spira mirabilis, &quot;the marvelous spiral&quot;.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
The tin whistle, also called the penny whistle,Oxford English Dictionary English flageolet, Scottish penny whistle, tin flageolet, Irish whistle, Belfast Hornpipe, feadóg stáin (or simply feadóg) and Clarke London FlageoletThe Clarke Tin Whistle By Bill Ochs is a simple, six-holed woodwind instrument. It is a type of fipple flute, putting it in the same class as the recorder, Native American flute, and other woodwind instruments that meet such criteria.
900 series}}
The Republic of Benin was formed in 1960 when the colony of French Dahomey gained independence from France. Prior to this, the area that is now the Republic of Benin was divided largely between two coastal kingdoms, Dahomey and Porto-Novo, and a large area of various tribes in the north.
A whistle is an instrument which produces sound from a stream of gas, most commonly air. It may be mouth-operated, or powered by air pressure, steam, or other means.
}}
right|thumb|250px|View of [[Tashichoedzong, Bhutan|Tashichoedzong, Thimphu. The 17th-century fortress-monastery on the northern edge of the city, has been the seat of Bhutan's government since 1952.
Year 201 (CCI) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Fabianus and Arrius (or, less frequently, year 954 Ab urbe condita).
Bosnia and Herzegovina, sometimes referred to simply as Bosnia, is a country in Southeastern Europe on the Balkan Peninsula. It has had permanent settlement since the Neolithic Age.
In sociology, socialization is the process of internalizing the norms and ideologies of society. Socialization encompasses both learning and teaching and is thus &quot;the means by which social and cultural continuity are attained&quot;.
Upon the rise of Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist German Workers Party (the Nazi Party) in Germany, gay men and, to a lesser extent, lesbians, were two of the numerous groups targeted by the Nazis and were ultimately among Holocaust victims. Beginning in 1933, gay organizations were banned, scholarly books about homosexuality, and sexuality in general, (such as those from the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft, run by Jewish gay rights campaigner Magnus Hirschfeld) were burned, and homosexuals within the Nazi Party itself were murdered.
}}
Ichthyology (from Greek: [ikhthus, &quot;fish&quot;; and λόγος, logos, &quot;study&quot;), also known as fish science, is the branch of zoology] devoted to the study of [[fish.  This includes bony fish (Osteichthyes), cartilaginous fish (Chondrichthyes), and jawless fish (Agnatha).
Single non-transferable vote or SNTV is an electoral system used in multi-member constituency elections.
or
Year 1062 (MLXII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
}}
X10 is a protocol for communication among electronic devices used for home automation (domotics). It primarily uses power line wiring for signaling and control, where the signals involve brief radio frequency bursts representing digital information.
Cable}}
LAN switching is a form of packet switching used in local area networks (LAN). Switching technologies are crucial to network design, as they allow traffic to be sent only where it is needed in most cases, using fast, hardware-based methods.
Monetarism is a school of thought in monetary economics that emphasizes the role of governments in controlling the amount of money in circulation. Monetarist theory asserts that variations in the money supply have major influences on national output in the short run and on price levels over longer periods.
)
Year 1096 (MXCVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Physical modelling synthesis refers to sound synthesis methods in which the waveform of the sound to be generated is computed using a mathematical model, a set of equations and algorithms to simulate a physical source of sound, usually a musical instrument.
In its war on terrorism in Yemen, the US government describes Yemen as &quot;an important partner in the global war on terrorism&quot;.Background Note: Yemen US Department of State, January 2006 There have been attacks on civilian targets and tourists, and there was a cargo-plane bomb plot in 2010.
Reason is the capacity for consciously making sense of things, applying logic, establishing and verifying facts, and changing or justifying practices, institutions, and beliefs based on new or existing information.&quot;So We Need Something Else for Reason to Mean&quot;, International Journal of Philosophical Studies 8: 3, 271 — 295.
The Kirkendall effect is the motion of the boundary layer between two metals that occurs as a consequence of the difference in diffusion rates of the metal atoms. The effect can be observed for example by placing insoluble markers at the interface between a pure metal and an alloy containing that metal, and heating to a temperature where atomic diffusion is possible; the boundary will move relative to the markers.
Year 1063 (MLXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1064 (MLXIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1065 (MLXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1067 (MLXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1069 (MLXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1074 (MLXXIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1075 (MLXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1076 (MLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1077 (MLXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1081 (MLXXXI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1082 (MLXXXII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1083 (MLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1085 (MLXXXV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1089 (MLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1090 (MXC) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1091 (MXCI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1092 (MXCII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1094 (MXCIV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1102 (MCII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1104 (MCIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1105 (MCV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1106 (MCVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1108 (MCVIII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1109 (MCIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
thumb|The mariner up on the mast in a storm. One of the [[wood engraving|wood-engraved illustrations by Gustave Doré of the poem.
Year 1240 (MCCXL) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1241 (MCCXLI) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1242 (MCCXLII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1243 (MCCXLIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1244 (MCCXLIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1245 (MCCXLV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1246 (MCCXLVI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1247 (MCCXLVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1249 (MCCXLIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1253 (MCCLIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1254 (MCCLIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1255 (MCCLV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1257 (MCCLVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1258 (MCCLVIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1259 (MCCLIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1260 (MCCLX) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1261 (MCCLXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1262 (MCCLXII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1263 (MCCLXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1264 (MCCLXIV) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1265 (MCCLXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1266 (MCCLXVI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1267 (MCCLXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1268 (MCCLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1269 (MCCLXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1278 (MCCLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1279 A.D (MCCLXXIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1280 (MCCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1281 (MCCLXXXI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1283 (MCCLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1285 (MCCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1287 (MCCLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1288 (MCCLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 1289 (MCCLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The infinite monkey theorem states that a monkey hitting keys at random on a typewriter keyboard for an infinite amount of time will almost surely type a given text, such as the complete works of William Shakespeare. In fact the monkey would almost surely type every possible finite text an infinite number of times.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 323 (CCCXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 1076 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
thumb|right|The Soldier and his Wife. Etching by [[Daniel Hopfer, who is believed to have been the first to apply the technique to printmaking]]
__NOTOC__
Screen printing is a printing technique whereby a mesh is used to transfer ink onto a substrate, except in areas made impermeable to the ink by a blocking stencil. A blade or squeegee is moved across the screen to fill the open mesh apertures with ink, and a reverse stroke then causes the screen to touch the substrate momentarily along a line of contact.
Ben K. Green (1912 – 1974) was an author who wrote about horses and the post-World War I American West.
__NOTOC__
Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing, normally on paper. Printmaking normally covers only the process of creating prints that have an element of originality, rather than just being a photographic reproduction of a painting.
}}
}}
The History of the British Virgin Islands is usually, for convenience, broken up into five separate periods:
}}
The history of Bulgaria can be traced from the first settlements on the lands of modern Bulgaria to its formation as a nation-state and includes the history of the Bulgarian people and their origin. The earliest evidence of human occupation discovered on what is today Bulgaria date from at least 1.
}}
border
The date of the first human presence in Ivory Coast (officially called Côte d'Ivoire) has been difficult to determine because human remains have not been well preserved in the country's humid climate. However, the presence of old weapon and tool fragments (specifically, polished axes cut through shale and remnants of cooking and fishing) in the country has been interpreted as a possible indication of a large human presence during the Upper Paleolithic period (15,000 to 10,000 BC),.
DATR is a language for lexical knowledge representation. The lexical knowledge is encoded in a network of nodes.
The jig () is a form of lively folk dance in compound metre, as well as the accompanying dance tune. It developed in 16th-century England, and was quickly adopted on the Continent where it eventually became the final movement of the mature Baroque dance suite (the French gigue; Italian and Spanish giga).
The Kama Sutra ( , ) is an ancient Indian Hindu text written by Vātsyāyana. It is widely considered to be the standard work on human sexual behaviour in Sanskrit literature.
A polyp in zoology is one of two forms  found in the phylum Cnidaria, the other being the medusa. Polyps are approximately cylindrical in shape and elongated at the axis of the vase-shaped body.
thumb|300px|Ovipositor of [[Tettigoniidae|Long-horned Grasshopper (the two cerci are also visible)]]
σπλήν,
The Wheel of Time is a series of high fantasy novels written by American author James Oliver Rigney, Jr. under his pen name of Robert Jordan.
(UK hardback edition)
The Great Hunt is the second book of The Wheel of Time fantasy series written by American author Robert Jordan. It was published by Tor Books and released on November 15, 1990.
right|thumb|A Crown of Swords was the first Wheel of Time book for which the cover of the first paperback edition, shown here, did not use the same art as the hardcover edition.
(UK hardback edition)
Mrs. Miniver is a fictional character created by Jan Struther in 1937 for a series of newspaper columns for The Times, later adapted into a film of the same name.
Binding may refer to:
The Służba Bezpieczeństwa Ministerstwa Spraw Wewnętrznych (;In isolation, Spraw is pronounced . Security Service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs; Polish abbreviations: SB and MSW, respectively), commonly known as Esbecja, was established in the People's Republic of Poland in 1956.
TAT-2 was AT&amp;T Corporation's second transatlantic telephone cable. It was in operation from 1959 to 1982, initially carrying 36 telephone circuits (simultaneous calls) between France and Newfoundland.
TAT-3 was AT&amp;T Corporation's third transatlantic telephone cable. It was in operation from 1963 to 1986.
TAT-4 was AT&amp;T Corporation's fourth transatlantic telephone cable. It was in operation from 1965 to 1987, initially carrying 138 telephone circuits (simultaneous calls) between Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez, Vendée (France) and Tuckerton, New Jersey (United States).
TAT-5 was AT&amp;T Corporation's 5th transatlantic telephone cable,
TAT-6 was the sixth transatlantic telephone cable. It was in operation from 1976 to 1994, initially carrying 4,000 telephone circuits (simultaneous calls) between Green Hill (United States) and Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez, Vendée, (France).
TAT-7 was AT&amp;T Corporation's seventh transatlantic telephone cable,
TAT-8 was the 8th transatlantic communications cable and first transatlantic fiber-optic cable, initially carrying 40,000 telephone circuits (simultaneous calls) between the United States, Great Britain and France.Bray, John.
The word at is an English word, which may act as a preposition.
TAT-9 was the 9th transatlantic telephone cable system, in operation from 1992 to 2004, initially carrying 80,000 telephone circuits between Europe (Goonhilly, United Kingdom ; Saint-Hilaire-de-Riez, France ; Conil de la Frontera, Spain) and  North America (Manahawkin, United States ; Pennant Point, Canada). It was built by an international consortium of co-owners and suppliers.
TAT-10 was AT&amp;T Corporation's 10th transatlantic telephone cable, in operation from 1992 to 2003, initially carrying 2 x 565 Mbit/s between United States and Norden in Germany.
TAT-11 was AT&amp;T Corporation's 11th transatlantic telephone cable, in operation from 1993, initially carrying 2 x 565 Mbit/s between the United States and France.
TAT-12/13 is a ring cable system consisting of the 12th and 13th consortia transatlantic telephone cables, in operation from 1996, initially carrying 2 × 5 Gbit/s.
CANTAT-1 was the first Canadian transatlantic telephone cable, which followed on from the success of TAT-1. It was conceived and approved as stage one of a proposed commonwealth round the world cable.
CANTAT-2 was the second Canadian transatlantic telephone cable,
}}
McDonald's Corporation v Steel &amp; Morris [1997] EWHC QB 366, known as &quot;the McLibel case&quot;, was an English lawsuit for libel filed by McDonald's Corporation against environmental activists Helen Steel and David Morris (often referred to as &quot;The McLibel Two&quot;) over a factsheet critical of the company. Each of two hearings in English courts found some of the leaflet's contested claims to be libellous and others to be true.
Price revolution, sometimes known as the Spanish Price Revolution, is a term used to describe a series of economic events from the second half of the 15th century to the first half of the 17th century. The price revolution refers most specifically to the high rate of inflation that occurred during this period across Western Europe.
The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert for AIDS Awareness was a benefit concert held on Easter Monday, 20 April 1992 at  Wembley Stadium in London, England for an audience of 72,000.1991: Giant of rock dies BBC News.
Mughal (also Moghul or Mogul), a word related to the Mongols, may refer to:
A  serial killer is  typically a person who murders three or more people,A serial killer is most commonly defined as a person who kills three or more people for psychological gratification; reliable sources over the years agree. See, for example:
The 1968 National Convention of the U.S.
Dark side of the Moon}}
The 16th century BC is a century which lasted from 1600 BC to 1501 BC.
The 17th century BC was a century which lasted from 1700 BC to 1601 BC.
The 18th century BC was the century which lasted from 1800 BC to 1701 BC.
Cracker is an American alternative rock band led by singer David Lowery and guitarist Johnny Hickman. The band is best known for its gold-selling 1993 album, Kerosene Hat, which includes the hit songs &quot;Low&quot; and &quot;Euro-Trash Girl.
Cracker is a British crime drama series produced by Granada Television for ITV, created and principally written by Jimmy McGovern. Set in Manchester, the series is centered on a criminal psychologist (or &quot;cracker&quot;), Dr Edward &quot;Fitz&quot; Fitzgerald, played by Robbie Coltrane, who works with the Greater Manchester Police to help them solve crimes.
border
thumb|300px|right|Western [[Teton Range in Caribou-Targhee National Forest, Idaho.]]
Myth}}
How Green Was My Valley is a 1939 novel by Richard Llewellyn, narrated by Huw Morgan, the main character, about his Welsh family and the mining community in which they live. The author had claimed that he based the book on his own personal experiences but this was found to be untrue after his death; Llewellyn was English-born and spent little time in Wales, though he was of Welsh descent.
Shor's algorithm, named after mathematician Peter Shor, is a quantum algorithm (an algorithm that runs on a quantum computer) for integer factorization formulated in 1994. Informally it solves the following problem: given an integer N, find its prime factors.
}}
&quot;Celtic Tiger&quot; () is a term referring to the economy of the Republic of Ireland from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s, a period of rapid real economic growth fuelled by foreign direct investment. The boom was dampened by a subsequent property bubble which resulted in a severe economic downturn.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
In mathematics,  especially in order theory, an upper bound of a subset S of some partially ordered set (K, ≤) is an element of K which is greater than or equal to every element of S. The term lower bound is defined dually as an element of K which is less than or equal to every element of S.
Nabokov is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
The Gloster Meteor was the first British jet fighter and the Allies' only jet aircraft to achieve combat operations during the Second World War. The Meteor's development was heavily reliant on its ground-breaking turbojet engines, pioneered by Sir Frank Whittle and his company, Power Jets Ltd.
A transatlantic telecommunications cable is a submarine communications cable connecting one side of the Atlantic Ocean to the other. In the 19th and early 20th centuries each cable was a single wire.
Dreams is an American sitcom that aired on CBS from October 3 to October 31, 1984. It follows the story of a fictional rock band that tries to get a recording contract.
Bion of Smyrna (; , gen.: Βίωνος) was a Greek bucolic poet.
A pendulum is a weight suspended from a [so that it can swing freely. When a pendulum is displaced sideways from its resting, equilibrium position], it is subject to a [[restoring force due to gravity that will accelerate it back toward the equilibrium position.
}}
()
Mary Elizabeth Braddon (4 October 1835 – 4 February 1915) was an English popular novelist of the Victorian era. She is best known for her 1862 sensation novel Lady Audley's Secret.
The Guar or cluster bean, with the botanical name Cyamopsis tetragonoloba, is an annual legume and the source of guar gum. It is also known as Gavar, Guwar, or Guvar bean.
Lady Audley's Secret is a sensation novel by Mary Elizabeth Braddon published in 1862.John Sutherland.
}}
Signal reflection occurs when a signal is transmitted along a transmission medium, such as a copper cable or an optical fiber. Some of the signal power may be reflected back to its origin rather than being carried all the way along the cable to the far end.
Transcendental Meditation (TM) refers to  a specific form of silent mantra meditation called the Transcendental Meditation technique,  and less commonly to the organizations that constitute the Transcendental Meditation movement. Maharishi Mahesh Yogi (1918–2008) introduced the TM technique and TM movement in India, in the mid-1950s.
VOC may refer to:
right|600px|thumb|Left to right: formation of bubble; slow expansion; quick and sudden contraction; purported fusion event.
The Municipal Art Society of New York, founded in 1893, is a non-profit membership organization that fights for intelligent urban planning, design and preservation through education, dialogue and advocacy in New York City.
The City of New York is home to many arts organizations. They include:
}}
Enterprise JavaBeans (EJB) is one of several Java APIs for modular construction of enterprise software. EJB is a server-side software component that encapsulates  business logic of an application.
right|thumb|Long exposure image of multi-bubble sonoluminescence created by a high-intensity [[Ultrasound|ultrasonic horn immersed in a beaker of liquid]]
was a Japanese novelist, poet and lady-in-waiting at the Imperial court during the Heian period. She is best known as the author of The Tale of Genji, written in Japanese between about 1000 and 1012.
The Java Transaction API (JTA), one of the Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) APIs, enables distributed transactions to be done across multiple X/Open XA resources in a Java environment. JTA is a specification developed under the Java Community Process as JSR 907.
editing
This article describes the history of Belarus. The Belarusian ethnos is traced at least as far in time as other East Slavs.
The Java Naming and Directory Interface (JNDI) is a Java API for a directory service that allows Java software clients to discover and look up data and objects via a name. Like all Java APIs that interface with host systems, JNDI is independent of the underlying implementation.
thumb|300px|A indoor rock climbing wall in the [[United Kingdom|UK showing moulded features and coloured route markers.]]
slověnĭskŭ językŭ
__NOTOC__
Year 298 (CCXCVIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Faustus and Gallus (or, less frequently, year 1051 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 388 (CCCLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus without colleague (or, less frequently, year 1141 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 383 (CCCLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Merobaudes and Saturninus (or, less frequently, year 1136 Ab urbe condita).
Year 382 (CCCLXXXII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Antonius and Syagrius (or, less frequently, year 1135 Ab urbe condita).
The history of Estonia forms a part of the history of Europe. Humans settled in the region of Estonia near the end of the last glacial era, beginning from around 8500 BC.
Year 380 (CCCLXXX) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Augustus (or, less frequently, year 1133 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Burundi is one of the few countries in Africa, along with its closely linked neighbour Rwanda among others (such as Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland), to be a direct territorial continuation of a pre-colonial era African state.
Speech synthesis is the artificial production of human speech. A computer system used for this purpose is called a speech computer or speech synthesizer, and can be implemented in software or hardware products.
__NOTOC__
Nutella (; ) is a brand of sweetened hazelnut cocoa spreadNutella hands £4m job to Krow ahead of relaunch – Brand Republic News. Brandrepublic.
}}
In meteorology, a cyclone is a large scale air mass that rotates around a strong center of low atmospheric pressure. Cyclones are characterized by inward spiraling winds that rotate about a zone of low pressure.
Lignite, often referred to as brown coal, is a soft brown combustible sedimentary rock formed from naturally compressed peat. It is considered the lowest rank of coal due to its relatively low heat content.
__NOTOC__
Year 424 (CDXXIV) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Castinus and Victor (or, less frequently, year 1177 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 202 (CCII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Antoninus (or, less frequently, year 955 Ab urbe condita).
Year 203 (CCIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Plautianus and Geta (or, less frequently, year 956 Ab urbe condita).
*
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
thumb|300px|[[Sestertius minted in 247 by Philip the Arab to celebrate Dacia province and its legions, V Macedonica and XIII Gemina. Note the eagle and the lion, V's and XIII's symbols, in the reverse.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 242 (CCXLII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gratus and Lepidus (or, less frequently, year 995 Ab urbe condita).
Year 241 (CCXLI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gordianus and Pompeianus (or, less frequently, year 994 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Inessive case (abbreviated ; from Latin inesse &quot;to be in or at&quot;) is a locative grammatical case.  This case carries the basic meaning of &quot;in&quot;: for example, &quot;in the house&quot; is &quot;talo·ssa&quot; in Finnish, &quot;maja·s&quot; in Estonian, &quot;куд·са&quot; (kud·sa) in Moksha, &quot;etxea·n&quot; in Basque, &quot;nam·e&quot; in Lithuanian, &quot;sāt·ā&quot; in Latgalian and &quot;ház·ban&quot; in Hungarian.
Elative}}
__NOTOC__
Illative (abbreviated ; from Latin illatus &quot;brought in&quot;) is, in the Finnish language, the Estonian language, the Lithuanian language,  and the Hungarian language, the third of the locative cases with the basic meaning of &quot;into (the inside of)&quot;. An example from Hungarian is &quot;a házba&quot; (into the house, with &quot;a ház&quot; meaning &quot;the house&quot;).
In Uralic languages, such as Finnish, Estonian and Hungarian, the adessive case (abbreviated ; from Latin adesse &quot;to be present&quot;) is the fourth of the locative cases with the basic meaning of &quot;on&quot;.  For example, Estonian laud (table) and laual (on the table), Hungarian asztal and asztalnál (by the table).
Allative case (abbreviated ; from Latin allāt-, afferre &quot;to bring to&quot;) is a type of the locative cases used in several Indo-European languages that have inherited the case from Proto-Indo-European. The term allative is generally used for the lative case in the majority of languages which do not make finer distinctions.
__NOTOC__
The essive case, or similaris case (abbreviated ) is one example of a grammatical case, an inflectional morphological process by which a form is altered or marked to indicate its grammatical function.O'Grady, William, John Archibald, Mark Aronoff, and Janie Rees-Miller.
Year 237 (CCXXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Perpetuus and Felix (or, less frequently, year 990 Ab urbe condita).
The translative case (abbreviated ) is a grammatical case that indicates a change in state of a noun, with the general sense of &quot;becoming X&quot; or &quot;change to X&quot;.
In the Finnish language, the instructive case has the basic meaning of &quot;by means of&quot;. It is a comparatively rarely used case, though it is found in some commonly used expressions, such as omin silmin → &quot;with one's own eyes&quot;.
In linguistics, abessive (abbreviated  or ), caritive and privative (abbreviated ) is the grammatical case expressing the lack or absence of the marked noun. In English, the corresponding function is expressed by the preposition [or by the suffix] [name abessive is derived from [[Latin language|Latin] abesse &quot;to be away/absent&quot;, and is especially used in reference to [[Uralic languages.
The comitative case (abbreviated ) is a grammatical case that denotes accompaniment. In English, the preposition &quot;with,&quot; in the sense of &quot;in company with&quot; or &quot;together with,&quot; plays a substantially similar role (other uses of &quot;with,&quot; like in the meaning of &quot;using&quot; or &quot;by means of&quot; (I cut bread with a knife)).
__NOTOC__
The prolative case (abbreviated ), also called the vialis case (abbreviated ), prosecutive case (abbreviated ), traversal case, mediative case, or translative case,Haspelmath, Martin. Terminology of Case in Handbook of Case, Oxford University Press, 2006.
__NOTOC__
Year 232 (CCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Lupus and Maximus (or, less frequently, year 985 Ab urbe condita).
Radio frequency (RF) is any of the electromagnetic wave frequencies that lie in the range extending from around  to , which include those frequencies used in radio communication or radar.
The partitive case (abbreviated  or more ambiguously ) is a grammatical case which denotes &quot;partialness&quot;, &quot;without result&quot;, or &quot;without specific identity&quot;. It is also used in contexts where a subgroup is selected from a larger group, or with numbers.
The absolutive case (abbreviated ) is the unmarked grammatical case of a core argument of a verb (generally other than the nominative) that is used as the citation form of a noun.
The Sudetenland (; ; Czech and ; ) is the name for the northern, southern, and western areas of former Czechoslovakia which were inhabited primarily by Sudeten Germans.  These German speakers had predominated in the border districts of Bohemia, Moravia, and Czech Silesia from the time of the Austrian Empire.
The Java Message Service (JMS) API is a Java Message Oriented Middleware (MOM) APICurry, Edward. 2004.
Java Platform, Enterprise Edition (Java EE), formerly known as Java 2 Platform, Enterprise Edition (J2EE), is a computing platform for development and deployment of enterprise software (network and web services). The platform uses the object-oriented Java programming language.
Java Platform, Micro Edition or Java ME is a computing platform for development and deployment of portable code for embedded and mobile devices (micro-controllers, sensors, gateways, mobile phones, personal digital assistants, TV set-top boxes, printers). Java ME was formerly known as Java 2 Platform, Micro Edition or J2ME.
Java Platform, Standard Edition or Java SE is a widely used computing platform for development and deployment of portable code for desktop and server environments. Java SE was formerly known as Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition or J2SE.
Later in his life, he was known as Ελία Καζάν in Greece—a transcription of his English name.  Dictionary.
In computer programming and software engineering, the ninety-ninety rule is a humorous aphorism that states:
The Rev Dr Nevil Maskelyne DD FRS FRSE (6 October 1732 – 9 February 1811) was the fifth British Astronomer Royal. He held the office from 1765 to 1811.
John Flamsteed FRS (19 August 1646 – 31 December 1719) was an English astronomer and the first Astronomer Royal. He catalogued over 3000 stars.
Cosmogony (or cosmogeny) is any model concerning the origin of either the cosmos or universe. Developing a complete theoretical model has implications in both the philosophy of science and epistemology.
The human genome is the complete set of nucleic acid sequence for humans (Homo sapiens), encoded as DNA within the 23 chromosome pairs in cell nuclei and in a small DNA molecule found within individual mitochondria.  Human genomes include both protein-coding DNA genes and noncoding DNA.
A fusor is a device that uses an electric field to heat ions to conditions suitable for nuclear fusion.  The machine generates an electric potential difference between two metal cages inside a vacuum.
An adjustable spanner (UK, and most other English-speaking countries) or adjustable wrench (US and Canada) is an open-end wrench with a movable jaw, allowing it to be used with different sizes of fastener head (nut, bolt, etc.) rather than just one fastener size, as with a conventional fixed spanner.
A viscometer (also called viscosimeter) is an instrument used to measure the viscosity of a fluid. For liquids with viscosities which vary with flow conditions, an instrument called a rheometer is used.
Anthrax is an infection caused by the bacterium Bacillus anthracis. It can occur in four forms: skin, inhalation, intestinal, and injection.
right|250px|thumb|The syntonic tuning continuum, showing Pythagorean tuning at 702 cents.
The Native American Trade refers to historic trade between Europeans and their North American descendants and the Indigenous people of North America (today known as Native Americans in the United States, and First Nations in Canada, but formerly as &quot;Indians&quot;), beginning before the colonial period and continuing through the 19th century, although declining it around 1937.
600px|thumb|right|Comparison between [[Pythagorean tuning (blue), equal-tempered (black), quarter-comma meantone (red) and third-comma meantone (green). For each, the common origin is arbitrarily chosen as C.
Fiji
The Queen of the Damned (1988) is the third novel of Anne Rice's The Vampire Chronicles series.  It follows Interview with the Vampire and The Vampire Lestat.
JavaServer Pages (JSP) is a technology that helps software developers create dynamically generated web pages based on HTML, XML, or other document types. Released in 1999 by Sun Microsystems,Mailing list archive: &quot;Sun JSP 1.
JSP may refer to:
}}
}}
In general, detection is the extraction of particular information from a larger stream of information without specific cooperation from or synchronization with the sender.
A photodiode is a semiconductor device that converts light into an electrical current.  The current is generated when photons are absorbed in the photodiode.
An autolysin is an enzyme (, gametolysin, Chlamydomonas cell wall degrading protease, lysin, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii metalloproteinase, gamete lytic enzyme, gamete autolysin) that hydrolyzes (and breaks down) the components of a biological cell or a tissue in which it is produced. It is similar in function to a lysozyme.
Biostasis is the ability of an organism to tolerate environmental changes without having to actively adapt to them. Biostasis is found in organisms that live in habitats that likely encounter unfavorable living conditions, such as drought, freezing temperatures, change in pH levels, pressure, or temperature.
thumb|250 px|Chitinase from barley seeds
171,553 ()
A lip piercing is a type of body piercing that penetrates the lips or the area surrounding the lips, which can be pierced in a variety of ways.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Irish Free State
Year 304 (CCCIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Valerius and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1057 Ab urbe condita).
An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. The name &quot;endospore&quot; is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.
Theodore the Studite (also known as Theodorus Studita, St. Theodore of Stoudios, and St.
The fractal transform is a technique invented by Michael Barnsley et al. to perform lossy image compression.
thumb|[[Refraction of light at the interface between two media of different refractive indices, with n2 &gt; n1. Since the velocity is lower in the second medium (v2 &lt; v1), the angle of refraction θ2 is less than the angle of incidence θ1; that is, the ray in the higher-index medium is closer to the normal.
() is Irish for &quot;Ireland&quot;, the name of an island and a sovereign state. The English pronunciation is  ().
Ornithology is a branch of zoology that concerns the study of birds. The word &quot;ornithology&quot; derives from the ancient Greek ὄρνις ornis (&quot;bird&quot;) and λόγος logos (&quot;rationale&quot; or &quot;explanation&quot;).
A future history is a postulated history of the future and is used by authors in the subgenre of speculative fiction (or science fiction) to construct a common background for fiction. Sometimes the author publishes a timeline of events in the history, while other times the reader can reconstruct the order of the stories from information provided therein.
Hubble's law is the name for the observation in physical cosmology that:
Suzuki may refer to:
Alternating current (AC) is an electric current which periodically reverses direction, in contrast to direct current (DC) which flows only in one direction. Alternating current is the form in which electric power is delivered to businesses and residences, and it is the form of electrical energy that consumers typically use when they plug kitchen appliances, televisions and electric lamps into a wall socket.
thumb|300px|A convoy of merchant ships protected by airplanes en route to [[Cape Town during World War II]]
A typical chain letter consists of a message that attempts to convince the recipient to make a number of copies of the letter and then pass them on to a certain number of recipients (either a predefined number or as many as possible). The &quot;chain&quot; is actually an exponentially growing pyramid (a tree graph) that cannot be sustained indefinitely.
Rebecca  is a biblical matriarch.
(The City of the four names)
}}
South West Africa (; ; ) was the name for modern-day Namibia when it was ruled by South Africa.
Fata Morgana may refer to:
[Levee Cross Section Figure.svg|thumb|Components of a levee:
Endianness refers to the sequential order used to numerically interpret a range of bytes in computer memory as a larger, composed word value. It also describes the order of byte transmission over a digital link.
The Scoville scale is a measurement of the pungency (spicy heat) of chili peppers—or other spicy foods, as reported in Scoville heat units (SHU), a function of capsaicin concentration. Capsaicin is one of many related active components found in chili peppers, collectively called capsaicinoids.
Propitiation, also called expiation, is the act of appeasing or making well-disposed a deity, thus incurring divine favor or avoiding divine retribution.http://englishdictionary.
An omphalos (ὀμφαλός) is a religious stone artifact, or baetylus. In Greek, the word omphalos means &quot;navel&quot;.
Gigi () is a 1944 novella by French writer Colette. The plot focuses on a young Parisian girl being groomed for a career as a courtesan and her relationship with the wealthy cultured man named Gaston who falls in love with her and eventually marries her.
In role-playing games, a druid is a character class that is generally portrayed as using nature-based magical abilities and striving to protect nature from civilized intrusion. Druid characters tend to have abilities that involve healing, weather or plant related spells, summoning animal allies, and shapeshifting.
The National Center for Science Education (NCSE) is a not-for-profit membership organization in the United States whose stated mission is to educate the press and the public on the scientific and educational aspects of controversies surrounding the teaching of evolution and climate change, and to provide information and resources to schools, parents, and other citizens working to keep those topics in public school science education. Based in Oakland, California, it claims 4,500 members that include scientists, teachers, clergy, and citizens of varied religious and political affiliations.
Edwards v. Aguillard, 482 U.
Quantum evolution is a component of George Gaylord Simpson's multi-tempoed theory of evolution proposed to explain the rapid emergence of higher taxonomic groups in the fossil record. According to Simpson, evolutionary rates differ from group to group and even among closely related lineages.
Omaha is a city in Nebraska, US.
Starfire}}
}}
Propagation can refer to:
Founded in 1981, Interleaf was a company that created computer software products for the technical publishing creation and distribution process. Its initial product was the first commercial document processor that integrated text and graphics editing, producing WYSIWYG (&quot;what you see is what you get&quot;) output at near-typeset quality.
One Thousand and One Nights ( ʾAlf layla wa-layla) is a collection of Middle Eastern folk tales compiled in Arabic during the Islamic Golden Age. It is often known in English as the Arabian Nights, from the first English-language edition (1706), which rendered the title as The Arabian Nights' Entertainment.
Traffic on roads consists of road users including pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, buses and other conveyances, either singly or together, while using the public way for purposes of travel. Traffic laws are the laws which govern traffic and regulate vehicles, while rules of the road are both the laws and the informal rules that may have developed over time to facilitate the orderly and timely flow of traffic.
}}
Project Mogul (sometimes referred to as Operation Mogul) was a top secret project by the US Army Air Forces involving microphones flown on high-altitude balloons, whose primary purpose was long-distance detection of sound waves generated by Soviet atomic bomb tests. The project was carried out from 1947 until early 1949.
}}
A flagellum (; plural: flagella) is a lash-like appendage that protrudes from the cell body of certain prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. The word flagellum in Latin means whip.
A gender role is a set of societal norms dictating the types of behaviors which are generally considered acceptable, appropriate, or desirable for people based on their actual or perceived sex or sexuality. Gender roles are usually centered on conceptions of femininity and masculinity, although there are exceptions and variations.
UDC may refer to:
Gender dysphoria, or gender identity disorder (GID), is the distress a person experiences as a result of the sex and gender they were assigned at birth. In these cases, the assigned sex and gender do not match the person's gender identity, and the person is transgender.
thumb|George Gale Brewery Dray performing at Great Dorset Steam Fair, 30 August 2008
Commandos is a stealth-oriented real-time tactics video game series. The five games released between 1998 and 2006 are all set during World War II and follow the adventures of a fictional British Commandos unit.
Eldridge Pope was a traditional brewery situated in Dorchester, Dorset in England.  The brewery opened in 1881, and was run by a limited company - Eldridge Pope &amp; Co.
German-Belgian border
This is a list of Canadians, people who are identified with Canada through residential, legal, historical, or cultural means, grouped by their area of notability.
The Norwegian Coast Guard icebreaker and offshore patrol vessel NoCGV Svalbard (W303) was constructed by Langsten AS at Tangen Verft shipyard in Kragerø and launched on 17 February 2001. She was named 15 December in Tomrefjord with Minister of Defence Kristin Krohn Devold as godmother, and delivered to the Coast Guard on 18 January 2002.
}}
Callisto}}
Europa}}
Siboglinidae, also known as the beard worms, is a family of polychaete annelid worms whose members made up the former phyla Pogonophora (the giant tube worms) and Vestimentifera. They are composed of about 100 species of vermiform creatures and live in thin tubes buried in sediments at ocean depths from .
The Placozoa are a basal form of invertebrate. They are the simplest in structure of all non-parasitic multicellular animals (Animalia).
Symbion is the name of a genus of aquatic animals, less than ½ mm wide, found living attached to the bodies of cold-water lobsters. They have sac-like bodies, and three distinctly different forms in different parts of their two-stage life-cycle.
}}
Acanthocephala (Greek , , thorn + , , head) is a phylum of parasitic worms known as acanthocephalans, thorny-headed worms, or spiny-headed worms, characterized by the presence of an eversible proboscis, armed with spines, which it uses to pierce and hold the gut wall of its host. Acanthocephalans have complex life cycles, involving at least two hosts, which may include invertebrates, fish, amphibians, birds, and mammals.
}}(total group)
Richard Wright}}
The Color Purple is a 1982 epistolary novel by American author Alice Walker that won the 1983 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the National Book Award for Fiction.
}}
Any worm that lives in a marine environment is considered a marine worm.  Marine worms are found in several different phyla, including the Platyhelminthes, Nematoda, Annelida (segmented worms), Chaetognatha, Hemichordata, and Phoronida.
}}
Late Cambrian to Late Triassic (Rhaetian)
Gnathostomulids, or jaw worms, are a small phylum of nearly microscopic marine animals. They inhabit sand and mud beneath shallow coastal waters and can survive in relatively anoxic environments.
}} The taxa Onychophora and Tardigrada survive to Recent
Archaeocyatha (or archaeocyathids ancient cups&quot; ) is a taxon of extinct, sessile, reef-buildingArchaeocyathid reef structures (&quot;bioherms&quot;), although not as massive as later coral reefs, might have been as deep as ten meters (Emiliani 1992:451). marine organisms of warm tropical and subtropical waters that lived during the early (lower) Cambrian Period.
Phyla, the plural of phylum, may refer to:
thumb|300px|Tonic (I) in [[ii-V-I turnaround on C, found at the end of the circle progression ]]
The Mesozoa (singular: mesozoon) are enigmatic, minuscule, worm-like parasites of marine invertebrates.  it was still unclear whether they are degenerate platyhelminthes (flatworms) or truly-primitive, basal metazoans.
}}
A Midsummer Night's Dream is a comedy written by William Shakespeare in 1595/96. It portrays the events surrounding the marriage of Theseus, the Duke of Athens, to Hippolyta, the former queen of the Amazons.
Cambrian (or earlier?) - present
where HN,s is the Nth generalized harmonic number|
E numbers are codes for substances that are permitted to be used as food additives for use within the European Union and Switzerland.European Directive 95/2/EC on food additives other than colours and sweeteners  The &quot;E&quot; stands for &quot;Europe&quot;.
2010 was designated as:
300px|right|thumb|Satellite image showing the Solent, separating the [[Isle of Wight from mainland England]]
==Events and trends==
thumb|The development of a green flash at sunset in San Francisco
The unicorn is a legendary creature that has been described since antiquity as a beast with a single large, pointed, spiraling horn projecting from its forehead. The unicorn was depicted in ancient seals of the Indus Valley Civilization and was mentioned by the ancient Greeks in accounts of natural history by various writers, including Ctesias, Strabo, Pliny the Younger, and Aelian.
}}
Coalition for Positive Sexuality is an internet-based comprehensive sexuality education website, for youth and young adults.
The name USS Argonaut may refer to the following submarines of the United States Navy:
Pope Soter (; 14 October 199 -  2 April 174) was the Bishop of Rome from c. 167 to his death c.
Morality (from the Latin  &quot;manner, character, proper behavior&quot;) is the differentiation of intentions, decisions and actions between those that are distinguished as proper and those that are improper. Morality can be a body of standards or principles derived from a code of conduct from a particular philosophy, religion or culture, or it can derive from a standard that a person believes should be universal.
The Pony Express was a mail service delivering messages, newspapers, and mail.
The term Great Awakening can refer to several periods of religious revival in American religious history. Historians and theologians identify three or four waves of increased religious enthusiasm occurring between the early 18th century and the late 19th century.
The Second Great Awakening was a Protestant religious revival during the early 19th century in the United States. The movement began around 1790, gained momentum by 1800 and, after 1820, membership rose rapidly among Baptist and Methodist congregations whose preachers led the movement.
In linear algebra, the trace of an n-by-n square matrix A is defined to be the sum of the elements on the main diagonal (the diagonal from the upper left to the lower right) of A, i.e.
* Crime
Malaya may refer to:
Abalone is an award-winning two-player abstract strategy board game designed by Michel Lalet and Laurent Lévi in 1987. Players are represented by opposing black and white marbles on a hexagonal board with the objective of pushing six of the opponent's marbles off the edge of the board.
In computing, the Java Remote Method Invocation (Java RMI) is a Java API that performs remote method invocation, the object-oriented equivalent of remote procedure calls (RPC), with support for direct transfer of serialized Java classes and distributed garbage-collection.
The  Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) is a standard defined by the Object Management Group (OMG) designed to facilitate the communication of systems that are deployed on diverse platforms. CORBA enables collaboration between systems on different operating systems, programming languages, and computing hardware.
RMI may refer to:
Cygnus Solutions, originally Cygnus Support, was founded in 1989 by John Gilmore, Michael Tiemann and David Henkel-Wallace to provide commercial support for free software.  Its tagline was: Making free software affordable.
1656), considered to be a self portrait by Vermeer&quot;The Procuress: Evidence for a Vermeer Self-Portrait&quot;. Retrieved 13 September 2010.
thumb|First edition ([[Doubleday (publisher)|Doubleday, Doran) ]]
The Halloween documents comprise a series of confidential Microsoft memoranda on potential strategies relating to free software, open-source software, and to Linux in particular, and a series of media responses to these memoranda. Both the leaked documents and the responses were published by Eric S.
This is a list of free and open-source software packages, computer software licensed under free software licenses and open-source licenses. Software that fits the Free Software Definition may be more appropriately called free software; the GNU project in particular objects to their works being referred to as open-source.
This is a list of mail server software: mail transfer agents, mail delivery agents, and other computer software which provide e-mail within Internet message handling services (MHS).
thumb|Mail relay diagram
In probability theory, a probability space or a probability triple is a mathematical construct that models a real-world process (or “experiment”) consisting of states that occur randomly. A probability space is constructed with a specific kind of situation or experiment in mind.
A metropolitan area network (MAN) is a computer network that interconnects users with computer resources in a geographic area or region larger than that covered by even a large local area network (LAN) but smaller than the area covered by a wide area network (WAN). The term is applied to the interconnection of networks in a city into a single larger network (which may then also offer efficient connection to a wide area network).
In mathematics, a Borel set is any set in a topological space that can be formed from open sets (or, equivalently, from closed sets) through the operations of countable union, countable intersection, and relative complement.  Borel sets are named after Émile Borel.
Padi}}
This article is a list of various states' armed forces ranking designations.  Comparisons are made between the different systems used by nations to categorize the hierarchy of an armed force compared to another.
thumb|right|300px|X.25 network diagram
border
Packet switching is a method of grouping data transmitted over a digital network into packets which are composed of a header and a payload. Data in the header is used by networking hardware to direct the packet to its destination where the payload is extracted and used by application software.
In computing, Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) is a network protocol suite that authenticates and encrypts the packets of data sent over a network. IPsec includes protocols for establishing mutual authentication between agents at the beginning of the session and negotiation of cryptographic keys to use during the session.
Ukiyo-e is a genre of Japanese art which flourished from the 17th through 19th centuries.  Its artists produced woodblock prints and paintings of such subjects as female beauties; kabuki actors and sumo wrestlers; scenes from history and folk tales; travel scenes and landscapes; flora and fauna; and erotica.
Latvian may refer to:
The Business School}}
)
This is a list of business schools in the United States. Business schools are listed in alphabetical order by state, then name.
This is a list of business schools in Europe. In Europe, most universities offer studies in business administration or related areas.
This page contains a list of business schools in Asia.
George Wellington &quot;Cap&quot; Streeter (1837 – January 22, 1921) was an American who became infamous in Chicago for his real estate schemes and oftentimes bizarre and  eccentricity. From 1886 to 1921, Streeter, through forgery and other manipulative means, attempted to steal  of Lake Michigan shoreline from various owners.
Irene is a name derived from εἰρήνη—the Greek for &quot;peace&quot;. See Irene (given name).
Nicephorus, Nikephoros, or Nikiforos is a Greek male name, meaning &quot;Bringer of Victory&quot;, which was commonly used among the Byzantine Empire's aristocracy. It may refer to:
Communitarianism is a philosophy that emphasizes the connection between the individual and the community. Its overriding philosophy is based upon the belief that a person's social identity and personality are largely molded by community relationships, with a smaller degree of development being placed on individualism.
Keratin (OED 2nd edition, 1989 as Entry &quot;keratin&quot; in Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary.) is one of a family of fibrous structural proteins.
The ballista (Latin, from Greek βαλλίστρα ballistraBallistra, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, at Perseus and that from βάλλω ballō, &quot;throw&quot;),Ballo, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, at Perseus plural ballistae, sometimes called bolt thrower, was an ancient missile weapon that launched a large projectile at a distant target.
Zugzwang}}
Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) is a routing protocol for Internet Protocol (IP) networks. It uses a link state routing (LSR) algorithm and falls into the group of interior gateway protocols (IGPs), operating within a single autonomous system (AS).
The Routing Information Protocol (RIP) is one of the oldest distance-vector routing protocols which employ the hop count as a routing metric. RIP prevents routing loops by implementing a limit on the number of hops allowed in a path from source to destination.
A country dance is a social dance form in which two or more couples dance together in a set.
An actuary is a business professional who deals with the measurement and management of risk and uncertainty . The name of the corresponding profession is actuarial science.
Thomas à Kempis, CRSA (c. 1380 – 25 July 1471)Bijdragen en Mededelingen betreffende de Geschiedenis der Nederlanden, 87, p.
Agrippina may refer to:
VHDL (VHSIC Hardware Description Language) is a hardware description language used in electronic design automation to describe digital and mixed-signal systems such as field-programmable gate arrays and integrated circuits. VHDL can also be used as a general purpose parallel programming language.
VHSIC (Very High Speed Integrated Circuit) was a 1980s U.S.
Aurelian (;In Classical Latin, Aurelian's name would be inscribed as LVCIVS DOMITIVS AVRELIANVS AVGVSTVS.His full name, with honorific and victory titles, was Imperator Caesar Lucius Domitius Aurelianus Augustus, Germanicus Maximus, Gothicus Maximus, Parthicus Maximus, Restitutor Orientis, Restitutor Orbis.
The Hotel class is the general NATO classification for a type of nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine that was originally put into service by the Soviet Union around 1959. The Soviet designation was Project 658.
The Project 651, known in the West by its NATO reporting name Juliett class,  was a class of Soviet diesel-electric submarines armed with cruise missiles. They were designed in the late 1950s to provide the Soviet Navy with a nuclear strike capability against targets along the east coast of the United States and enemy combatants (aircraft carriers).
}}
Nature is an English multidisciplinary scientific journal, first published on 4 November 1869. It was ranked the world's most cited scientific journal by the Science Edition of the 2010 Journal Citation Reports and is ascribed an impact factor of approximately 38.
Mary, Queen of Scots (1542–1587) was queen regnant of Scotland and queen consort of France.
Simulation is the imitation of the operation of a real-world process or system over time. The act of simulating something first requires that a model be developed; this model represents the key characteristics, behaviors and functions of the selected physical or abstract system or process.
In Greek mythology (and later Roman mythology), Arachne (; from  &quot;spider&quot;, cognate with Latin araneus)R. S.
}}
}}
}}
The Three Kingdoms (AD 184/220–280) was the tripartite division of China between the states of Wei (), Shu (), and Wu (), following the Han dynasty and preceding the Jin dynasty. The term &quot;Three Kingdoms&quot; itself is something of a mistranslation, since each state was eventually headed not by a king, but by an emperor who claimed legitimate succession from the Han dynasty.
}}
Zhou}}
}}
Nine Men's Morris is a strategy board game for two players dating at least to the Roman Empire. The game is also known as Nine Man Morris, Mill, Mills, The Mill Game, Merels, Merrills, Merelles, Marelles, Morelles and Ninepenny Marl in English.
The Wars of Scottish Independence were a series of military campaigns fought between the Kingdom of Scotland and the Kingdom of England in the late 13th and early 14th centuries.
A mutt is a mongrel (a dog of unknown ancestry).
Operations Research}}
right|thumb|250px|[[Mozilla Thunderbird email client user interface on a GNU/Linux operating system]]
Montgomery County may refer to:
Pacifist may mean:
Moco}}
}}
thumb|350px|[[Boxplot and probability density function of a normal distribution .]]
A windmill is a mill that converts the energy of wind into rotational energy by means of vanes called sails or blades. Centuries ago, windmills usually were used to mill grain (gristmills), pump water (windpumps), or both.
A heuristic argument is an argument that reasons from the value of a method or principle that has been shown by experimental (especially trial-and-error) investigation to be a useful aid in learning, discovery and problem-solving. A widely used and important example of a heuristic argument is Occam's Razor.
A fairy tale is a type of short story that typically features folkloric fantasy characters, such as dwarfs, dragons, elves, fairies, giants, gnomes, goblins, griffins, mermaids, talking animals, trolls, unicorns, or witches, and usually magic or enchantments. Fairy tales may be distinguished from other folk narratives such as legends (which generally involve belief in the veracity of the events described)Thompson, Stith.
The word dord is a notable error in lexicography, an accidental creation, or ghost word, of the G. and C.
Ganja may refer to:
400px|thumb|Bush's &quot;axis of evil&quot; comprised [[Iran, Iraq, and North Korea (red). &quot;Beyond the Axis of Evil&quot; comprised Cuba, Libya, and Syria (yellow).
Allied powers (and their colonies)
The word amen ( or ; ; Greek: ἀμήν; , ʾāmīn ; &quot;So be it; truly&quot;) is a declaration of affirmation found in the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. It is found in Jewish, Christian, and Muslim worship as a concluding word or response to prayers.
Abendana is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
The Rhodes piano (also known as the Fender Rhodes piano or simply Fender Rhodes or Rhodes) is an electric piano invented by Harold Rhodes, which became particularly popular throughout the 1970s. Like a piano, it generates sound using keys and hammers, but instead of strings, the hammers strike thin metal tines, which are then amplified via an electromagnetic pickup which is plugged into an external keyboard amplifier and speaker.
A hypothetical Solar System object is a planet, natural satellite or similar body in the Solar System whose existence is not known, but has been inferred from observational scientific evidence. Over the years a number of hypothetical planets have been proposed, and many have been disproved.
The Three Little Pigs is a fable about three anthropomorphic pigs who build three houses of different materials. A big bad wolf blows down the first two pigs' houses, made of straw and sticks respectively, but is unable to destroy the third pig's house, made of bricks.
Khmer may refer to:
thumb|Schist specimen showing the characteristic &quot;scaly&quot; schistose texture, caused by platy micas
m) H-M symbol: (4/m  2/m)
Hornblende is a complex inosilicate series of minerals (ferrohornblende – magnesiohornblende).http://www.
Basalt (pronounced ,  or ) is a common extrusive igneous (volcanic) rock formed from the rapid cooling of basaltic lava exposed at or very near the surface of a planet or moon. Flood basalt describes the formation in a series of lava basalt flows.
thumb|right|220px|Commercial [[honeycomb foundation, made by pressing beeswax between patterned metal rollers]]
m) H-M symbol: ( 2/m)
are small, annotative glosses that are usually placed above or to the right of Chinese characters when writing languages with logographic characters such as Chinese, Japanese, or Korean to show the pronunciation. Typically called just ruby or rubi, such annotations are most commonly used as pronunciation guides for characters that are likely to be unfamiliar to the reader.
Action film is a subgenre of thriller film in which the protagonist or protagonists end up in a series of challenges that typically include violence, extended fighting, physical feats, and frantic chases. Action films tend to feature a resourceful hero struggling against incredible odds, which include life-threatening situations, a villain, or a pursuit which generally concludes in victory for the hero (though a small number of films in this genre have ended in victory for the villain instead).
A ghost town is an abandoned village, town, or city, usually one that contains substantial visible remains. A town often becomes a ghost town because the economic activity that supported it has failed, or due to natural or human-caused disasters such as floods, government actions, uncontrolled lawlessness, war, or nuclear disasters.
The Lager Beer Riot occurred in Chicago, Illinois, in 1855 after Mayor Levi Boone, great-nephew of Daniel Boone, renewed enforcement of an old local ordinance mandating that taverns be closed on Sundays and led the city council to raise the cost of a liquor license from $50 per year to $300 per year, renewable quarterly. This move was seen as targeting German and Irish immigrants.
)()
The President of the Republic of Poland (, shorter form: Prezydent RP) is the head of state of Poland. His or her rights and obligations are determined in the Constitution of Poland.
}}
Saint Teresa}}
==Events==
m) H–M symbol: (4/m  2/m) (cF12)
Flux is either of two separate simple and ubiquitous concepts throughout physics and applied mathematics. Within a discipline, the term is generally used consistently, but care must be taken when comparing phenomena from different disciplines.
De facto (), Latin for &quot;in fact&quot;, describes practices that exist in reality, even if not legally authorized.See I.
The United States Naval Observatory (USNO) is one of the oldest scientific agencies in the United States, with a primary mission to produce Positioning, Navigation and Timing (PNT) for the United States Navy and the United States Department of Defense. Located in Northwest Washington, D.
An exciton is a bound state of an electron and an electron hole which are attracted to each other by the electrostatic Coulomb force. It is an electrically neutral quasiparticle that exists in insulators, semiconductors and in some liquids.
Geologically, a fjord or fiord ( or ) is a long, narrow inlet with steep sides or cliffs, created by glacial erosion. There are many fjords on the coasts of Alaska, British Columbia, Chile, Greenland, Iceland, the Kerguelen Islands, New Zealand, Norway, Novaya Zemlya, Labrador, Nunavut, Newfoundland, Scotland, and Washington state.
thumb|350px|right|Participating states of the Wassenaar Arrangement
In botany, a bud is an undeveloped or embryonic shoot and normally occurs in the axil of a leaf or at the tip of a stem. Once formed, a bud may remain for some time in a dormant condition, or it may form a shoot immediately.
Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon is a parlour game based on the &quot;six degrees of separation&quot; concept, which posits that any two people on Earth are six or fewer acquaintance links apart. Movie buffs challenge each other to find the shortest path between an arbitrary actor and prolific character actor Kevin Bacon.
thumb|A [[split leap executed by an acro dancer. This is one of several types of leaps found in dance.
Grease often refers to:
Hari (Sanskrit: हरि, IAST: Harī) is the supreme absolute being in Hinduism and is often used interchangeably with Vishnu and Narayana to such an extent that they are considered to be one and the same.
A pension is a fund into which a sum of money is added during an employee's employment years, and from which payments are drawn to support the person's retirement from work in the form of periodic payments. A pension may be a &quot;defined benefit plan&quot; where a fixed sum is paid regularly to a person, or a &quot;defined contribution plan&quot; under which a fixed sum is invested and then becomes available at retirement age.
Arsinoe (), sometimes spelled Arsinoë, pronounced Arsinoi in modern Greek, may refer to:
A pension fund, also known as a superannuation fund in some countries, is any plan, fund, or scheme which provides retirement income.
thumb|Arsinoe II
A black panther is the melanistic color variant of any Panthera species. Black panthers in Asia and Africa are leopards (Panthera pardus) and black panthers in the Americas are black jaguars (Panthera onca).
Miocene to Recent
Method may refer to:
–present
CFG may stand for:
In computing, spamdexing (also known as search engine spam, search engine poisoning, black-hat SEO, search spam or web spam) SearchEngineLand, Danny Sullivan's video explanation of Search Engine Spam, October 2008 . Retrieved 2008-11-13.
}}
Daniel Niklaus Chodowiecki (16 October 1726 – 7 February 1801) was a Polish—and later German—painter and printmaker with Huguenot  ancestry, who is most famous as an etcher. He spent most of his life in Berlin, and became the director of the Berlin Academy of Art.
In music, a cadenza (from  , meaning cadence; plural, cadenze ) is, generically, an improvised or written-out ornamental passage played or sung by a soloist or soloists, usually in a &quot;free&quot; rhythmic style, and often allowing for virtuosic display. During this time the accompaniment will rest, or sustain a note or chord.
==Events and trends==
Johannes Daniel Falk (28 October 1768 Danzig – 14 February 1826 Weimar) was a German publisher and poet.
Laurence Kerr Olivier, Baron Olivier,  (; 22 May 1907 – 11 July 1989) was an English actor and director who, along with his contemporaries Ralph Richardson and John Gielgud, dominated the British stage of the mid-20th century. He also worked in films throughout his career, playing more than fifty cinema roles.
A country dance is any of a large number of social dances of the British Isles in which couples dance together in a figure or &quot;set&quot;, each dancer dancing to his or her partner and each couple dancing to the other couples in the set. A set consists most commonly of two or three couples, sometimes four and rarely five or six.
Peter Minuit, Pieter Minuit, Pierre Minuit or  Peter Minnewit  (between 1580 and 1585 – August 5, 1638) was a Walloon from Wesel, in present-day North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, then part of the Duchy of Cleves. His surname means &quot;midnight&quot; in French.
Flintstone may refer to:
Flint is a hard, sedimentary cryptocrystalline form of the mineral quartz,General Quartz Information – Webmineral.com (page contains java applets depicting 3d molecular structure)Flint and Chert – quartzpage.
Edwin Beard Budding (1796–1846), an engineer from Stroud, England, was the English inventor of the lawnmower (1830) and adjustable spanner (1842).
Cryptocrystalline is a rock texture made up of such minute crystals that its crystalline nature is only vaguely revealed even microscopically in thin section by transmitted polarized light.  Among the sedimentary rocks, chert and flint are cryptocrystalline.
Sill may refer to:
thumb|Powdered aluminium pigment gives traditional duct tape its silvery grey colour
Radiation pressure is the pressure exerted upon any surface exposed to electromagnetic radiation. Radiation pressure implies an interaction between electromagnetic radiation and bodies of various types, including clouds of particles or gases.
A Nichols radiometer was the apparatus used by Ernest Fox Nichols and Gordon Ferrie Hull in 1901 for the measurement of radiation pressure. It consisted of a pair of small silvered glass mirrors suspended in the manner of a torsion balance by a fine quartz fibre within an enclosure in which the air pressure could be regulated.
}}
border
The prisoner's dilemma is a standard example of a game analyzed in game theory that shows why two completely &quot;rational&quot; individuals might not cooperate, even if it appears that it is in their best interests to do so. It was originally framed by Merrill Flood and Melvin Dresher working at RAND in 1950.
Athletics is a collection of sporting events that involve competitive running, jumping, throwing, and walking. The most common types of athletics competitions are track and field, road running, cross country running, and race walking.
The hammer throw is one of the four throwing events in regular track and field competitions, along with the discus throw, shot put and javelin. The &quot;hammer&quot; used in this sport is not like any of the tools also called by that name.
The decathlon is a combined event in athletics consisting of ten track and field events. The word decathlon is of Greek origin, from δέκα (déka, meaning &quot;ten&quot;) and ἄθλος (áthlos, or ἄθλον, áthlon, meaning &quot;feat&quot;).
Eddie Blazonczyk, Sr. (July 12, 1941 – May 21, 2012) was a Grammy award-winning polka musician and founder of the band The Versatones.
Linear programming (LP, also called linear optimization) is a method to achieve the best outcome (such as maximum profit or lowest cost) in a mathematical model whose requirements are represented by linear relationships. Linear programming is a special case of mathematical programming (mathematical optimization).
__NOTOC__
Year 294 (CCXCIV) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Constantius and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1047 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
A network packet is a formatted unit of data carried by a packet-switched network. When data is formatted into packets, and packet switching is employed, the bandwidth of the communication medium can be better shared among users than with circuit switching.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 288 (CCLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Valerius and Ianuarianus (or, less frequently, year 1041 Ab urbe condita).
Year 285 (CCLXXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Carinus and Aurelius (or, less frequently, year 1038 Ab urbe condita).
Year 287 (CCLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Valerius and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1040 Ab urbe condita).
Year 283 (CCLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Carus and Carinus (or, less frequently, year 1036 Ab urbe condita).
Year 282 (CCLXXXII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Probus and Victorinus (or, less frequently, year 1035 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 274 (CCLXXIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelianus and Capitolinus (or, less frequently, year 1027 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 252 (CCLII) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Trebonianus and Volusianus (or, less frequently, year 1005 Ab urbe condita).
Year 256 (CCLVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Claudius and Glabrio (or, less frequently, year 1009 Ab urbe condita).
Year 258 (CCLVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Tuscus and Bassus (or, less frequently, year 1011 Ab urbe condita).
Year 259 (CCLIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aemilianus and Bassus (or, less frequently, year 1012 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 269 (CCLXIX) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Claudius and Paternus (or, less frequently, year 1022 Ab urbe condita).
Year 190 (CXC) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Sura (or, less frequently, year 943 Ab urbe condita).
Year 191 (CXCI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Apronianus and Bradua (or, less frequently, year 944 Ab urbe condita).
Year 192 (CXCII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aelius and Pertinax (or, less frequently, year 945 Ab urbe condita).
Year 193 (CXCIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sosius and Ericius (or, less frequently, year 946 Ab urbe condita).
Year 194 (CXCIV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Septimius and Septimius (or, less frequently, year 947 Ab urbe condita).
Year 196 (CXCVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Dexter and Messalla (or, less frequently, year 949 Ab urbe condita).
Year 197 (CXCVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Magius and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 950 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Venetia}}
Dál Riata or Dál Riada (also Dalriada) () was a Gaelic overkingdom that included parts of western Scotland and northeastern Ireland, on each side of the North Channel. At its height in the late 6th–early 7th centuries, it encompassed roughly what is now Argyll in Scotland and part of County Antrim in the Irish province of Ulster.
Year 188 (CLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Fuscianus and Silanus (or, less frequently, year 941 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 186 (CLXXXVI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Glabrio (or, less frequently, year 939 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 183 (CLXXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Victorinus (or, less frequently, year 936 Ab urbe condita).
Year 182 (CLXXXII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Sura and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 935 Ab urbe condita).
Year 181 (CLXXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Burrus (or, less frequently, year 934 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 231 (CCXXXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Claudius and Sallustus (or, less frequently, year 984 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
}}
}}
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people can face violence motivated by hateful attitudes towards their sexuality or gender identity. Violence may be executed by the state, as in laws prescribing corporal punishment for homosexual acts (see homosexuality laws), or by individuals engaging in intimidation, mobbing, assault, or lynching (see gay bashing, trans bashing).
==Events and trends==
A tin foil hat is a hat made from one or more sheets of aluminium foil, or a piece of conventional headgear lined with foil, worn in the belief or hope that it shields the brain from threats such as electromagnetic fields, mind control, and mind reading. The notion of wearing homemade headgear for such protection has become a popular stereotype and byword for paranoia, persecutory delusions, and belief in pseudoscience and conspiracy theories.
McCarthyism is the practice of making accusations of subversion or treason without proper regard for evidence. The term refers to U.
A Beautiful Mind may refer to:
Charles Tyson Yerkes ( ; June 25, 1837 – December 29, 1905) was an American financier, born in Philadelphia. He played a major part in developing mass-transit systems in Chicago and London.
The Java Transaction Service (JTS) is a specification for building a transaction manager that maps onto the Object Management Group (OMG) Object Transaction Service (OTS) used in the Common Object Request Broker Architecture (CORBA) architecture. It uses General Inter-ORB Protocol (IIOP) to propagate the transactions between multiple JTS transaction managers.
The Java programming language XML APIs developed by Sun Microsystems consist of the following separate  computer-programming APIs:
Michael &quot;Hinky Dink&quot; Kenna (August 20, 1858 – October 9, 1946) was one of the two aldermen elected in Chicago's First Ward, from 1897 to 1923.
A Java servlet is a Java program that extends the capabilities of a server. Although servlets can respond to any types of requests, they most commonly implement applications hosted on Web servers.
Year 179 (CLXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Veru (or, less frequently, year 932 Ab urbe condita).
Year 178 (CLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Scipio and Rufus (or, less frequently, year 931 Ab urbe condita).
Year 177 (CLXXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Commodus and Plautius (or, less frequently, year 930 Ab urbe condita).
Year 176 (CLXXVI) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Proculus and Aper (or, less frequently, year 929 Ab urbe condita).
Year 174 (CLXXIV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gallus and Flaccus (or, less frequently, year 927 Ab urbe condita).
Year 173 (CLXXIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Pompeianus (or, less frequently, year 926 Ab urbe condita).
Year 172 (CLXXII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Scipio and Maximus (or, less frequently, year 925 Ab urbe condita).
Year 171 (CLXXI) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Herennianus (or, less frequently, year 924 Ab urbe condita).
The Santorum Amendment was a failed proposed amendment to the 2001 education funding bill (which became known as the No Child Left Behind Act), proposed by Republican Rick Santorum (then a United States Senator for Pennsylvania), which promoted the teaching of intelligent design while questioning the academic standing of evolution in US public schools. In response, a coalition of 96 scientific and educational organizations wrote a letter to the conference committee, urging that the amendment be stricken from the final bill, arguing that evolution is, in the scientific fields, regarded as fact and that the amendment creates the misperception that evolution is not fully accepted in the scientific community, and thus weakens science curricula.
}}
More or Mores may refer to:
From a sociological perspective, social norms are informal understandings that govern the behavior of members of a society.Marshall, G.
Autonomous system may refer to:
Reality is the state of things as they actually exist, rather than as they may appear or might be imagined.Compact Oxford English Dictionary of Current English, Oxford University Press, 2005.
C64 or C-64 may refer to :
Lake Effect}}
A choir () (also known as a quire, chorale or chorus) is a musical ensemble of singers. Choral music, in turn, is the music written specifically for such an ensemble to perform.
Johann Wilhelm Archenholz was born in Langfuhr (Wrzeszcz) near Danzig (Gdańsk) on 3 September 1741. He was a Prussian
Clostridium botulinum is a Gram-positive, rod-shaped, anaerobic,  spore-forming, motile bacterium with the ability to produce a neurotoxin known as botulinum.
}}
A transitive verb is a verb that requires one or more objects. This contrasts with intransitive verbs, which do not have objects.
300px|thumb|Aerobic and anaerobic [[bacteria can be identified by growing them in test tubes of thioglycollate broth:  1: Obligate aerobes need oxygen because they cannot ferment or respire anaerobically. They gather at the top of the tube where the oxygen concentration is highest.
In grammar, an intransitive verb does not allow a direct object. This is distinct from a transitive verb, which takes one or more objects.
A micrometer ( ), sometimes known as a micrometer screw gauge, is a device incorporating a calibrated screw widely used for precise measurement of componentsEncyclopedia Americana (1988) &quot;Micrometer&quot; Encyclopedia Americana 19: 500  (set) in mechanical engineering and machining as well as most mechanical trades, along with other metrological instruments such as dial, vernier, and digital calipers. Micrometers are usually, but not always, in the form of calipers (opposing ends joined by a frame), which is why micrometer caliper is another common name.
In grammar, a ditransitive verb is a verb which takes a subject and two objects which refer to a theme and a recipient. According to certain linguistics considerations, these objects may be called direct and indirect, or primary and secondary.
In biology/ecology, parasitism is a non-mutual relationship between species, where one species, the parasite, benefits at the expense of the other, the host. Traditionally parasite (in biological usage) referred primarily to organisms visible to the naked eye, or macroparasites (such as helminths).
thumb|right|A bacterial lawn used in antibiotic resistance testing.
* Windows CE and Windows Mobile
A Petri dish (sometimes spelled &quot;Petrie dish&quot; and alternatively known as a Petri plate or cell-culture dish), named after the German bacteriologist Julius Richard Petri,Petri dish in the American Heritage Dictionary.Petri, R.
Massage involves working and acting on the body with pressure. Techniques are commonly applied using hands, fingers, elbows, knees, forearm, feet, or a device.
}}
Protium may refer to:
Star formation is the process by which dense regions within molecular clouds in interstellar space, sometimes referred to as &quot;stellar nurseries&quot; or &quot;star-forming regions&quot;, fuse to form stars. As a branch of astronomy, star formation includes the study of the interstellar medium (ISM) and giant molecular clouds (GMC) as precursors to the star formation process, and the study of protostars and young stellar objects as its immediate products.
Antipyretics (, from anti- 'against' and  'feverish') are substances that reduce fever. Antipyretics cause the hypothalamus to override a prostaglandin-induced increase in temperature.
.}}
An Erlenmeyer flask, also known as a conical flask (BrE). or titration flask, is a type of laboratory flask which features a flat bottom, a conical body, and a cylindrical neck.
thumb|250px|Three [[beaker (glassware)|beakers, an Erlenmeyer flask, a graduated cylinder and a volumetric flask]]
Beaker may refer to:
Psychosurgery, also called  neurosurgery for mental disorder (NMD), is the neurosurgical treatment of mental disorder. Psychosurgery has always been a controversial medical field.
Dalton may refer to:
A calorimeter is an object used for calorimetry, or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity. Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal micro calorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types.
In a mixture of gases, each gas has a partial pressure which is the hypothetical pressure of that gas if it alone occupied the entire volume of the original mixture at the same temperature.  The total pressure of an ideal gas mixture is the sum of the partial pressure of each individual gas in the mixture.
SS General von Steuben was a German passenger liner and later an armed transport in the Kriegsmarine of Nazi Germany that was sunk during World War II. She was launched as München (sometimes spelled Muenchen), renamed in 1930 as General von Steuben (after the famous German officer of the American Revolutionary War), and renamed again in 1938 as Steuben.
}}
, in the Polish Navy since January 1943
Reading}}
Plumbing is any system that conveys fluids for a wide range of applications. Plumbing uses pipes, valves, plumbing fixtures, tanks, and other apparatuses to convey fluids.
The phrase evil empire was first applied to the Soviet Union in 1983 by U.S.
The Royal Observatory, Greenwich (ROG; known as the Old Royal Observatory from 1957 to 1998, when the working Royal Greenwich Observatory, RGO, moved from Greenwich to Herstmonceux) is an observatory situated on a hill in Greenwich Park, overlooking the River Thames. It played a major role in the history of astronomy and navigation, and is best known as the location of the prime meridian, and thereby gave its name to Greenwich Mean Time.
Charing Cross Road is a street in central London running immediately north of St Martin-in-the-Fields to St Giles Circus (the intersection with Oxford Street) and then becomes Tottenham Court Road. It is so called because it serves Charing Cross railway station (named for the nearby Charing Cross).
border
The Secretary of War was a member of the United States President's Cabinet, beginning with George Washington's administration. A similar position, called either &quot;Secretary at War&quot; or &quot;Secretary of War,&quot; had been appointed to serve the Congress of the Confederation under the Articles of Confederation between 1781 and 1789.
border
A dysphemism is an expression with connotations that are offensive either about the subject matter or to the audience, or both. Dysphemisms contrast with neutral or euphemistic expressions.
border
The English Patient is a 1992 novel by Michael Ondaatje. The book follows four dissimilar people brought together at an Italian villa during the Italian Campaign of World War II.
Adaptive Transform Acoustic Coding (ATRAC) is a family of proprietary audio compression algorithms developed by Sony. MiniDisc was the first commercial product to incorporate ATRAC in 1992.
}}
Josef Anton Bruckner (; ) was an Austrian composer best known for his symphonies, masses, and motets. The first are considered emblematic of the final stage of Austro-German Romanticism because of their rich harmonic language, strongly polyphonic character, and considerable length.
Butts, Edward (2009). Henry Hudson:New World Voyager.
A candle is an ignitable wick embedded in wax or another flammable solid substance such as tallow that provides light, and in some cases, a fragrance.  It can also be used to provide heat, or used as a method of keeping time.
Year 205 (CCV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Geta (or, less frequently, year 958 Ab urbe condita).
DSP may refer to:
The utopia and its derivative, the dystopia, are genres of literature that explore social and political structures.  Utopian fiction portrays a setting that agrees with the author's ethos, having various attributes of another reality intended to appeal to readers.
Year 206 (CCVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Umbrius and Gavius (or, less frequently, year 959 Ab urbe condita).
Year 207 (CCVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Maximus and Severus (or, less frequently, year 960 Ab urbe condita).
Year 208 (CCVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Aurelius and Geta (or, less frequently, year 961 Ab urbe condita).
In mathematics, the notion of permutation relates to the act of arranging all the members of a set into some sequence or order, or if the set is already ordered, rearranging (reordering) its elements, a process called permuting. These differ from combinations, which are selections of some members of a set where order is disregarded.
The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA), commonly referred to as the National Security Advisor (NSA)  or at times informally termed the NSC advisor,The National Security Advisor and Staff: p. 1.
border
}}
Rubi  may refer to:
Rawa may refer to:
Oceanography (compound of the Greek words ὠκεανός meaning &quot;ocean&quot; and γράφω meaning &quot;write&quot;), also known as oceanology, is the study of the physical and the biological aspects of the ocean. It is an Earth science covering a wide range of topics, including ecosystem dynamics; ocean currents, waves, and geophysical fluid dynamics; plate tectonics and the geology of the sea floor; and fluxes of various chemical substances and physical properties within the ocean and across its boundaries.
Northern Province or North Province may refer to:
Oklahoma Indian Affairs Commission. 2011: 15.
John Abbott (1821–1893) was Prime Minister of Canada, 1891–1892.
In mathematics and in particular measure theory, a measurable function is a function between two measurable spaces such that the preimage of any measurable set is measurable, analogously to the definition that a function between topological spaces is continuous if the preimage of each open set is open. In real analysis, measurable functions are used in the definition of the Lebesgue integral.
MD Data stands for MiniDisc Data, and is a magneto-optical medium for storing computer data. Sony wanted MD Data to replace floppy disks, but the Zip drive from Iomega ended up filling that market need and, later on, the advent of affordable CD writers and very cheap blank CD media, coupled with the availability of memory sticks and cards proved the final straw for MD Data.
Galactic astronomy is the study of the Milky Way galaxy and all its contents. This is in contrast to extragalactic astronomy, which is the study of everything outside our galaxy, including all other galaxies.
}}
thumb|300px|X-rays start at ~0.008 nm and extend across the [[electromagnetic spectrum to ~8 nm, over which the Earth's atmosphere is opaque.
thumb|right|250px|Galaxies in the [[Hubble Deep Field]]
Vulcan is a small hypothetical planet that was proposed to exist in an orbit between Mercury and the Sun. Attempting to explain peculiarities of Mercury's orbit, the 19th-century French mathematician Urbain Le Verrier hypothesized that they were the result of another planet, which he named &quot;Vulcan&quot;.
The Avro Vulcan (later Hawker Siddeley Vulcan from July 1963)&quot;Hawker Siddeley Aviation Ltd.&quot; Flight, 29 August 1963, p.
without feed system M61A2:  without feed system
thumb|170px|First edition cover
Marine science is a multidisciplinary field of study and research of ocean life and physics. Overlap areas between the different marine science disciplines are increasingly targeted as it seems necessary to investigate these areas in order to fully understand the workings of the marine environment.
Sui generis (; ) is a Latin phrase, meaning &quot;of its (his, her, or their) own kind; in a class by itself; unique&quot;.
Hans von Bodeck (1582–1658) was a German diplomat and chancellor of the Hohenzollern Prince-electors of Brandenburg-Prussia.
Twelve ships of the Royal Navy have been named HMS Antelope, after the Antelope:
The term satellite state designates a country that is formally independent in the world, but under heavy political, economic and military influence or control from another country. The term was coined by analogy to planetary objects orbiting a larger object, such as smaller moons revolving around larger planets, and is used mainly to refer to Central and Eastern European countriesSource: NATO website 2nd Footnote at bottom  of the Warsaw Pact during the Cold War or to Mongolia between 1924 and 1990, for example.
The Tribute in Light is an art installation of 88 searchlights placed next to the site of the World Trade Center to create two vertical columns of light to represent the Twin Towers in remembrance of the September 11 attacks. It is produced annually by the Municipal Art Society of New York.
Siegmund (Sigismund) Freiherr von Herberstein (or Baron Sigismund von Herberstein), (23 August 1486 – 28 March 1566) was a Carniolan diplomat, writer, historian and member of the Holy Roman Empire Imperial Council. He was most noted for his extensive writing on the geography, history and customs of Russia and contributed greatly to early Western European knowledge of that area.
thumb|right|Minuet in the [[classical period (music)|Classical Period.]]
A symphony is an extended musical composition in Western classical music, most often written by composers for orchestra.  Although the term has had many meanings from its origins in the ancient Greek era, by the late 18th century the word had taken on the meaning common today: a work usually consisting of multiple distinct sections or movements, often four, with the first movement in sonata form.
A concerto (—plural concertos, anglicised from the Italian concerti  (which is also used in English)—is a musical composition, whose characteristics have changed over time. In the 17th century, &quot;sacred works for voices and orchestra were typically called concertos.
Sonata  (; Italian: , pl. sonate; from Latin and Italian: sonare, &quot;to sound&quot;), in music, literally means a piece played as opposed to a cantata (Latin and Italian cantare, &quot;to sing&quot;), a piece sung.
A gyroscope (from Ancient Greek γῦρος gûros, &quot;circle&quot; and σκοπέω skopéō, &quot;to look&quot;) is a spinning wheel or disc in which the axis of rotation is free to assume any orientation by itself. When rotating, the orientation of this axis is unaffected by tilting or rotation of the mounting, according to the conservation of angular momentum.
Hitch may refer to:
Military incompetence refers to incompetencies and failures of military organisations, whether through incompetent individuals or through a flawed institutional culture.
A lashing is an arrangement of rope wire or webbing with linking device used to secure and fasten two or more items together in a somewhat rigid manner. Lashings are most commonly applied to timber poles, and are commonly associated with cargo, containerisation, the Scouting movement, and sailors.
Plait may refer to:
Overture (from French ouverture,  &quot;opening&quot;) in music is the term originally applied to the instrumental introduction to an opera.Blom 1954.
A cantata  (literally &quot;sung&quot;, past participle feminine singular of the Italian verb cantare, &quot;to sing&quot;) is a vocal composition with an instrumental accompaniment, typically in several movements, often involving a choir.
The metric system is an internationally agreed decimal system of measurement. It was originally based on the  and the  introduced by the French First Republic in 1799, but over the years the definitions of the metre and the kilogram have been refined, and the metric system has been extended to incorporate many more units.
The interquartile mean (IQM) (or midmean) is a statistical measure of central tendency based on the truncated mean of the interquartile range. The IQM is very similar to the scoring method used in sports that are evaluated by a panel of judges: discard the lowest and the highest scores; calculate the mean value of the remaining scores.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
Kill Doctor Lucky is a humorous board game designed by James Ernest and released in 1996 by Cheapass Games.  In 1998, Kill Doctor Lucky won the Origins Award for Best Abstract Board Game of 1997.
10 July 1559
Clue may refer to:
A conservative force is a force with the property that the work done in moving a particle between two points is independent of the taken path.HyperPhysics - Conservative force  Equivalently, if a particle travels in a closed loop, the net work done (the sum of the force acting along the path multiplied by the displacement) by a conservative force is zero.
Coda can denote any concluding event, summation, or section.
thumb|288px|Massika, a Sauk Indian, left, and Wakusasse, right, of the [[Meskwaki. By Karl Bodmer, aquatint made at St.
Johannes Brahms (1833–1897) was a German composer and pianist.
Henry Purcell (1659–1695) was an English composer.
Richard Wagner (1813–1883) was a German composer.
Hanlon's razor is an aphorism expressed in various ways including &quot;Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity&quot; or &quot;Don't assume bad intentions over neglect and misunderstanding.&quot; It recommends a way of eliminating unlikely explanations for a phenomenon (a philosophical razor).
Satellite temperature measurements are inferences  of the temperature of the atmosphere at various altitudes as well as sea and land surface temperatures obtained from radiometric measurements by satellites. These measurements can be used to locate weather fronts, monitor the El Niño-Southern Oscillation, determine the strength of tropical cyclones, study urban heat islands and monitor the global climate.
Ozone depletion describes two distinct but related phenomena observed since the late 1970s: a steady decline of about four percent in the total amount of ozone in Earth's stratosphere (the ozone layer), and a much larger springtime decrease in stratospheric ozone around Earth's polar regions. The latter phenomenon is referred to as the ozone hole.
Sound effects (or audio effects) are artificially created or enhanced sounds, or sound processes used to emphasize artistic or other content of films, television shows, live performance, animation, video games, music, or other media. In motion picture and television production, a sound effect is a sound recorded and presented to make a specific storytelling or creative point without the use of dialogue or music.
In evolutionary biology, reciprocal altruism is a behaviour whereby an organism acts in a manner that temporarily reduces its fitness while increasing another organism's fitness, with the expectation that the other organism will act in a similar manner at a later time. The concept was initially developed by Robert Trivers to explain the evolution of cooperation as instances of mutually altruistic acts.
The Selfish Gene is a 1976 book on evolution by Richard Dawkins, in which he builds upon the principal theory of George C. Williams's Adaptation and Natural Selection (1966).
DocBook is a semantic markup language for technical documentation. It was originally intended for writing technical documents related to computer hardware and software but it can be used for any other sort of documentation.
The Document Style Semantics and Specification Language (DSSSL) is an international standard developed to provide a stylesheets for SGML documents.
Statecraft may refer to:
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound (30 October 1885 – 1 November 1972) was an expatriate American poet and critic, as well as a major figure in the early modernist movement. His contribution to poetry began with his development of Imagism, a movement derived from classical Chinese and Japanese poetry, stressing clarity, precision and economy of language.
François Villon (pronounced  in modern French; in fifteenth-century French, ), born in Paris in 1431 and disappeared from view in 1463, is the best known French poet of the late Middle Ages. A ne'er-do-well who was involved in criminal behavior and had multiple encounters with law enforcement authorities, Villon wrote about some of these experiences in his poems.
Shale is a fine-grained, clastic sedimentary rock composed of mud that is a mix of flakes of clay minerals and tiny fragments (silt-sized particles) of other minerals, especially quartz and calcite. The ratio of clay to other minerals is variable.
Slate is a fine-grained, foliated,  homogeneous metamorphic rock derived from an original shale-type sedimentary rock composed of clay or volcanic ash through low-grade regional metamorphism. It is the finest grained foliated metamorphic rock.
thumb|right|Early model use from &quot;[[A Trip to the Moon&quot;]]
Menhaden, also known as mossbunker and bunker, are forage fish of the genera Brevoortia and Ethmidium, two genera of marine fish in the family Clupeidae. Menhaden is a blend of poghaden (pogy for short) and an Algonquian word akin to Narragansett munnawhatteaûg, derived from munnohquohteau ‘he fertilizes’, referring to their use of the fish as fertilizer.
(rebranded in 1992)
Hungarian notation is an identifier naming convention in computer programming, in which the name of a variable or function indicates its intention or kind, and in some dialects its type. The original Hungarian Notation uses intention or kind in its naming convention and is sometimes called Apps Hungarian as it became popular in the Microsoft Apps division in the development of Word, Excel and other apps.
thumb|250px|50 [[denarii coin with profile of King Gelimer]]
thumb|right|300px|Classical Spectacular used ordinary stage lighting plus special laser effects
List of association football clubs in Spain sorted by division:
Encyclopædia Britannica
Hara may refer to:
Nataraja நடராஜர் नटराज, &quot;the lord of dance&quot;), is a depiction of the Hindu god Shiva as the cosmic ecstatic dancer. His dance is called Tandavam or Nadanta, depending on the context of the dance.
Ramayana (;&quot;Ramayana&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
thumb|350px|right|The Cape of Good Hope; looking towards the west, from the coastal cliffs above Cape Point, overlooking Dias beach
A microsatellite is a tract of repetitive DNA in which certain DNA motifs (ranging in length from 2–13 base pairs) are repeated, typically 5–50 times. Microsatellites occur at thousands of locations within an organism's genome; additionally, they have a higher mutation rate than other areas of DNA leading to high genetic diversity.
Albion may refer to the following places in the U.S.
thumb|Map of the Pribilof Islands
The Grand Union Canal in England is part of the British canal system. Its main line starts in London and ends in Birmingham, stretching for  with 166 locks.
border
Gun control (or firearms regulation)Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (2005). Federal Firearms Regulations Reference Guide (PDF).
border
}}
The Big Fisherman is a 1959 American film directed by Frank Borzage about the life of Simon Peter, one of the  disciples of Jesus. Starring Howard Keel, Susan Kohner and John Saxon, the production is adapted from the 1948 novel by Lloyd C.
In genomics and related disciplines, noncoding DNA sequences are components of an organism's DNA that do not encode protein sequences. Some noncoding DNA is transcribed into functional non-coding RNA molecules (e.
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is the process of determining an individual's DNA characteristics, called a DNA profile, that is very likely to be different in unrelated individuals, thereby being as unique to individuals as are fingerprints (hence the alternative name for the technique). DNA profiling should not be confused with full genome sequencing.
https://www.boston.
thumb|Syenite
A drumlin, from the Irish word droimnín (&quot;littlest ridge&quot;), first recorded in 1833, and in the classical sense is an elongated hill in the shape of an inverted spoon or half-buried eggMenzies(1979) quoted in Benn, D.I.
A moraine is any glacially formed accumulation of unconsolidated glacial debris (regolith and rock) that occurs in both currently and formerly glaciated regions on Earth (i.e.
Hilderic (460s – 533) was the penultimate king of the Vandals and Alans in North Africa in Late Antiquity (523–530). Although dead by the time the Vandal kingdom was overthrown in 534, he nevertheless played a key role in that event.
Gallura is a region in the northeast of the island of Sardinia, Italy.
An invention is a unique or novel device, method, composition or process. The invention process is a process within an overall engineering and product development process.
There were two battles named Battle of Nineveh:
Phocas (; , Phokas; 547 – 5 October 610) was Byzantine Emperor from 602 to 610. He usurped the throne from the Emperor Maurice, and was himself overthrown by Heraclius after losing a civil war.
CAPI may refer to:
Mīrzā Muhammad Tāraghay bin Shāhrukh (, ), better known as Ulugh Beg () (March 22, 1394 in Sultaniyeh, Persia –  October 27, 1449, Samarkand), was a Timurid ruler as well as an astronomer, mathematician and sultan. His commonly known name is not truly a personal name, but rather a moniker, which can be loosely translated as &quot;Great Ruler&quot; or &quot;Patriarch Ruler&quot; and was the Turkic equivalent of Timur's Perso-Arabic title Amīr-e Kabīr.
Severus is the name of various historical and fictional figures, including:
Bow may refer to:
Severus Snape is a fictional character in J. K.
A club is an association of two or more people united by a common interest or goal. A service club, for example, exists for voluntary or charitable activities; there are clubs devoted to hobbies and sports, social activities clubs, political and religious clubs, and so forth.
Beggar-my-neighbour, also known as Strip-Jack-Naked in some European countries, is a simple card game somewhat similar in nature to war, and has spawned a more complicated variant, Egyptian ratscrew.
}}
Cladocystis trifolium|other uses|Clover (disambiguation)}}
Damnatio memoriae is a modern Latin phrase literally meaning &quot;condemnation of memory&quot;, meaning that a person must not be remembered.
The shallot is a type of onion, specifically a botanical variety of the species Allium cepa.
thumb|The VHS cover
Rudolf Hell (19 December 1901 – 11 March 2002) was a German inventor. He was born in Eggmühl, Germany.
Selfish genetics elements (also sometimes called selfish DNA) are genetic sequences that spread by forming additional copies of itself within the genome; and makes no specific contribution to the reproductive success of its host organism (it might or might not have significant deleterious effects).
The theory of the selfish gene is another name for the gene-centered view of evolution.
The Congo River (also known as the Zaire River; ; ; ) is the second longest river in Africa after Nile and the second largest river in the world by discharge volume of water (after the Amazon), and the world's deepest river with measured depths in excess of .
thumb|[[Black body radiation as a function of wavelength for various absolute temperatures. Each curve is seen to peak at a somewhat different wavelength; Wien's law describes the shift of that peak in terms of temperature.
A black body is an idealized physical body that absorbs all incident electromagnetic radiation, regardless of frequency or angle of incidence.  A white body is one with a &quot;rough surface [that] reflects all incident rays completely and uniformly in all directions.
thumb|Mechanical desktop typewriters, such as this [[Underwood Typewriter Company|Underwood Touchmaster Five, were long-time standards of government agencies, newsrooms, and offices]]
Where the Heart Is}}
Transom may refer to:
Treble may refer to:
150px|thumb|right|Architectural trefoil
thumb|280px|right|Sermon on the Mount by [[Carl Bloch]]
thumb|right|Gold [[armband with Triton holding a putto, Greek, 200 BC (Metropolitan Museum of Art)]]
Gunderic (; 379–428), King of Hasding Vandals (407-418), then King of Vandals and Alans (418–428), led the Hasding Vandals, a Germanic tribe originally residing near the Oder River, to take part in the barbarian invasions of the Western Roman Empire in the fifth century.
TLS may refer to:
In the Harry Potter book series, a Muggle is a person who lacks any sort of magical ability and was not born in a magical family. Muggles can also be described as people who do not have any magical blood inside them.
Socrates of Constantinople (,The traditional epithet &quot;Socrates Scholasticus&quot; is not well-founded in any early tradition, according to his most recent editor, Theresa Urbainczyk, Socrates of Constantinople: Historian of Church and State (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press) 1997. .
The Defenestrations of Prague (, , ) were two incidents in the history of Bohemia in which multiple people were defenestrated (i.e.
Conrad II (4 June 1039), also known as  and , was Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire from 1027 until his death in 1039. The founder of the Salian dynasty of emperors, Conrad also served as King of Germany from 1024, King of Italy from 1026, and King of Burgundy from 1033.
The Research Vessel Triton is a trimaran vessel owned by Gardline Marine Sciences Limited and a former prototype British warship demonstrator for the UK's Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (later QinetiQ). She was built as a technology demonstrator ship for the Royal Navy's Future Surface Combatant, and has been used to both prove the viability of the hull-form and as a trials platform for other QinetiQ innovations.
Brown dwarfs are substellar objects that occupy the mass range between the heaviest gas giant planets and the lightest stars, of approximately 13 to 75–80 Jupiter masses (), or approximately  to about . Below this range are the sub-brown dwarfs, and above it are the lightest red dwarfs (M9 V).
}}
Kabala can refer to:
}}  Zaraθuštra
A microphone array is any number of microphones operating in tandem. There are many applications:
Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye, is inflammation of the outermost layer of the white part of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelid. It makes the eye appear pink or reddish.
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition and subsequent cementation of that material at the Earth's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral or organic particles (detritus) to settle in place.
thumb|right|The [[Curia Julia in the Roman Forum]]
A deliberative assembly is a gathering of members (of any kind of collective) who use parliamentary procedure to make decisions.
A legislature is a deliberative assembly with the authority to make laws for a political entity such as a country or city. Legislatures form important parts of most governments; in the separation of powers model, they are often contrasted with the executive and judicial branches of government.
thumb|right|[[Quartzite, a type of metamorphic rock]]
Chondrus crispus—commonly called Irish moss or carrageen moss (Irish carraigín, &quot;little rock&quot;)—is a species of red algae  which grows abundantly along the rocky parts of the Atlantic coast of Europe and North America. In its fresh condition this protist is soft and cartilaginous, varying in color from a greenish-yellow, through red, to a dark purple or purplish-brown.
A glacis (; ) in military engineering is an artificial slope as part of a medieval castle or in early modern fortresses. They may be constructed of earth as a temporary structure or of stone in more permanent structure.
}}
A tractor beam is a device with the ability to attract one object to another from a distance. The concept originates in fiction: the term was coined by E.
Rostrum may refer to:
}}
The name Gosnells may refer to:
thumb|225px|A male spanking a female subject in a [[BDSM dungeon]]
Pax Romana (Latin for the &quot;Roman Peace&quot;) was the long period of relative peacefulness and minimal expansion by the Roman military force experienced by the Roman Empire after the end of the Final War of the Roman Republic and before the beginning of the Crisis of the Third Century. During this time, the Roman empire reached its peak land mass area and its population grew up to 70 million people.
Anti-capitalism encompasses a wide variety of movements, ideas and attitudes that oppose capitalism. Anti-capitalists, in the strict sense of the word, are those who wish to replace capitalism with a moneyless society or with another type of economic system.
right|thumb|Example Condorcet method voting ballot.  Blank votes are equivalent to ranking that candidate last.
The Forge of God is a 1987 science fiction novel by American writer Greg Bear. Earth faces destruction when an inscrutable and overwhelming alien form of life attacks.
Blood Music is a science fiction novel by American writer Greg Bear.
)
Interpretation of dreams may refer to:
Imereti (Georgian: იმერეთი) is a region  in Georgia situated along the middle and upper reaches of the Rioni river. It consists of the following Georgian administrative-territorial units:
. The most prominent feature in the image, the bright, youthful plains of Tombaugh Regio and Sputnik Planitia, can be seen at lower right.
The World According to Garp is John Irving's fourth novel, about a man born out of wedlock to a feminist leader who grows up to be a writer. Published in 1978, the book was a bestseller for several years.
A respirometer is a device used to measure the rate of respiration of a living organism by measuring its rate of exchange of oxygen and/or carbon dioxide. They allow investigation into how factors such as age, or chemicals affect the rate of respiration.
Tuff (from the Italian tufo) is a type of rock made of volcanic ash ejected from a vent during a volcanic eruption. Following ejection and deposition, the ash is compacted into a solid rock in a process called consolidation.
David Fabricius (9 March 1564 – 7 May 1617, aged 53) was a German pastor who made two major discoveries in the early days of telescopic astronomy, jointly with his eldest son, Johannes Fabricius (1587–1615).
Melvin Lawrence DeFleur (April 27, 1923 – February 13, 2017) was a professor and scholar in the field of communications. His initial field of study was social sciences.
The Independent Media Center (also known as Indymedia or IMC) is a global open publishing network of journalist collectives that report on political and social issues. It originated during the Seattle anti-WTO protests worldwide in 1999 and remains closely associated with the global justice movement, which criticizes neo-liberalism and its associated institutions.
}}
The National Park System of the United States is the collection of physical properties owned or administered by the National Park Service. This includes all areas designated national parks and most national monuments, as well as several other types of protected areas of the United States.
A linear motor is an electric motor that has had its stator and rotor &quot;unrolled&quot; so that instead of producing a torque (rotation) it produces a linear force along its length. However, linear motors are not necessarily straight.
thumb|right|400px|The Roman empire under [[Hadrian (ruled 117–138), showing the location of the Chatti in central Germany.]]
Warren Sturgis McCulloch (November 16, 1898 – September 24, 1969) was an American neurophysiologist and cybernetician, known for his work on the foundation for certain brain theories and his contribution to the cybernetics movement.Ken Aizawa (2004), &quot;McCulloch, Warren Sturgis&quot;.
440
__NOTOC__
}}
This is a  list of National Parks of Canada. Canadian National Parks preserve both spectacular and representative areas of the country, located in every one of the nation's 13 provinces and territories.
Mutiny on the Bounty is the title of the 1932 novel by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall, based on the mutiny against Lieutenant William Bligh, commanding officer of the Bounty in 1789. It has been made into several films and a musical.
. The portrait of Raphael is probably &quot;a later adaptation of the one likeness which all agree on&quot;: that in The School of Athens, vouched for by Vasari.
Notes on Muscovite Affairs (Rerum Moscoviticarum Commentarii) (1549) was a Latin book by Baron Sigismund von Herberstein on the geography, history and customs of Muscovy (the 16th century Russian state). The book was the main early source of knowledge about Russia in Western Europe.
The history of Portugal dates back to the Early Middle Ages. In the 15th and 16th centuries, Portugal ascended to the status of a world power during Europe's &quot;Age of Discovery&quot; as it built up a vast empire, including possessions in South America, Africa, Asia, and Oceania.
)
The Kids in the Hall is a Canadian sketch comedy group formed in 1984, consisting of comedians Dave Foley, Kevin McDonald, Bruce McCulloch, Mark McKinney, and Scott Thompson. Their eponymous television show ran from 1989 to 1995 on CBC in Canada, and CBS, HBO, and Comedy Central in the United States.
[of glacial till. Note that the larger grains (pebbles and gravel) in the till are completely surrounded by the matrix of finer material (silt and sand), and this characteristic, known as matrix support, is diagnostic of till.
A tie rod is a slender structural unit used as a tie and (in most applications) capable of carrying tensile loads only.
(Dutch)
Unie van Suid-Afrika
The Province of the Cape of Good HopeSouth Africa Act, 1909 §6 (Wikisource) (), commonly referred to as the Cape Province (), was a province in the Union of South Africa and subsequently the Republic of South Africa. It encompassed the old Cape Colony, and had Cape Town as its capital.
ISO/IEC 8859-15:1999, Information technology — 8-bit single-byte coded graphic character sets — Part 15: Latin alphabet No. 9, is part of the ISO/IEC 8859 series of ASCII-based standard character encodings, first edition published in 1999.
A graphics suite is a software suite for graphics work that are distributed together. The programs are usually able to interact with each other on a higher level than the operating system would normally allow.
thumb|right|A screenshot from the [[GIMP raster graphics editor.]]
A vector graphics editor is a computer program that allows users to compose and editing vector graphics images interactively on a computer and save them in one of many popular vector graphics formats, such as EPS, PDF, WMF, SVG, or VML.
A herbivore is an animal anatomically and physiologically adapted to eating plant material, for example foliage, for the main component of its diet. As a result of their plant diet, herbivorous animals typically have mouthparts adapted to rasping or grinding.
Hackney most commonly refers to:
}}
)
Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.  It is a member of a family of notations invented by Paul Bachmann, Edmund Landau, and others, collectively called Bachmann–Landau notation or asymptotic notation.
A monostable multivibrator is an electronic circuit that generates an output pulse. When triggered, a pulse of pre-defined duration is produced.
A cyclotron is a type of particle accelerator invented by Ernest O. Lawrence Lawrence, Ernest O.
Radius of gyration or gyradius refers to distribution of the components of an object around an axis. In terms of [mass moment of inertia], it is the perpendicular distance from the axis of rotation to a point mass (of mass, m) that gives an equivalent inertia to the original object(s) (of mass, m).
(Latin)&quot;I Will Rise Again&quot;
The national parks of England and Wales are areas of relatively undeveloped and scenic landscape that are designated under the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act (2016). Despite their similar name, national parks in England and Wales are quite different from national parks in many other countries, which are usually owned and managed by the government as a protected community resource, and which do not usually include permanent human communities.
In vertebrate anatomy, ribs () are the long curved bones which form the rib cage. In most tetrapods, ribs surround the chest, enabling the lungs to expand and thus facilitate breathing by expanding the chest cavity.
Positronium (Ps) is a system consisting of an electron and its anti-particle, a positron, bound together into an exotic atom, specifically an onium.  The system is unstable: the two particles annihilate each other to predominantly produce two or three gamma-rays, depending on the relative spin states.
thumb|350px|Looking eastwards along [[Loch Katrine in the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs National Park.]]
)
Carnelian (also spelled cornelianWebsters New World College Dictionary. Fourth Edition.
m) H-M symbol: ( 2/m)
and Mark Rein·Hagen
Casu marzu (, also called casu modde, casu cundídu and casu fràzigu in Sardinian language), literally translating into English as &quot;rotten/putrid cheese&quot;, is a traditional Sardinian sheep milk cheese, that contains live insect larvae (maggots). Although found in the island of Sardinia, a variety of this cheese is also found on the nearby island of Corsica, where it goes by the name of casgiu merzu.
==17th century==
David James &quot;Dave&quot; Mattacks (born 13 March 1948, Edgware, Middlesex, England) is an English rock and folk drummer.  Best known for his work with Fairport Convention, Mattacks has also worked both as a session musician and as a performance artist.
Brillat-Savarin is a soft, white-crusted cow's milk cheese triple cream brie with at least 75% fat in dry matter (roughly 40% overall). It was created c.
}}
Port Salut is a semi-soft pasteurised cow's milk cheese from Pays de la Loire, France, with a distinctive orange rind and a mild flavour.  The cheese is produced in wheels approximately 23 cm (9 inches) in diameter, weighing approximately .
Castile (;  ) is a vaguely defined historical region of Spain. There are different conceptions and definitions of Castile, and since it lacks modern day official recognition, it has no clearly defined borders.
Homeland defense (HD) is the protection of a territory, sovereignty, domestic population, and critical infrastructure against external threats and aggression. (Definition will be incorporated into JP 3-26FAS.
The Congress of Vienna (German: Wiener Kongress) was a meeting of ambassadors of European states chaired by Austrian statesman Klemens von Metternich, and held in Vienna from November 1814 to June 1815, though the delegates had arrived and were already negotiating by late September 1814. The objective of the Congress was to provide a long-term peace plan for Europe by settling critical issues arising from the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars.
A diphthong (  or  ; from Greek: , diphthongos, literally &quot;two sounds&quot; or &quot;two tones&quot;), also known as a gliding vowel, is a combination of two adjacent vowel sounds within the same syllable. Technically, a diphthong is a vowel with two different targets: that is, the tongue (and/or other parts of the speech apparatus) moves during the pronunciation of the vowel.
Ultramarine is a deep blue color and a pigment which was originally made by grinding lapis lazuli into a powder.Webster's New World Dictionary of American English, Third College Edition 1988.
(as Gramophone Award)
The Grammy Award for Song of the Year is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards. Awards in several categories are distributed annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to &quot;honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency  and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position.
The following are the 16 national parks of Germany, sorted from North to South:
thumb|right|Map of New Zealand with the national parks marked in green
3m) H-M symbol: ( 3m)
Lapis lazuli (, ), or lapis for short, is a deep blue metamorphic rock used as a semi-precious stone that has been prized since antiquity for its intense color. As early as the 7th millennium BC, lapis lazuli was mined in the Sar-i Sang mines,David Bomford and Ashok Roy, A Closer Look- Colour (2009), National Gallery Company, London, () in  Shortugai, and in other mines in Badakhshan province in northeast Afghanistan.
(1.792 RJ)
Giuseppe Domenico Scarlatti (Naples, 26 October 1685 Madrid, 23 July 1757) was an Italian composer who spent much of his life in the service of the Portuguese and Spanish royal families. He is classified primarily as a Baroque composer chronologically, although his music was influential in the development of the Classical style and he was one of the few Baroque composers to transition into the classical period.
Metis  (Μῆτις, &quot;wisdom,&quot; &quot;skill,&quot; or &quot;craft&quot;), in ancient Greek religion, was a mythological character belonging to the Titan generation. Like several primordial figures, she was an Oceanid, in the sense that Metis was born of Oceanus and his sister Tethys, of an earlier age than Zeus and his siblings.
}}
Arcangelo Corelli (;&quot;Corelli&quot;. Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary.
The East Slavs are Slavic peoples speaking the East Slavic languages. Formerly the main population of the medieval state of Kievan Rus, by the seventeenth century they evolved into the Russian, Rusyn, Ukrainian and BelarusianEncyclopædia Britannica On-line people.
The one-child policy, a part of the family planning policy, was a population planning policy of China. It was introduced in 1979 and began to be formally phased out in 2015.
In optics, an Arago spot, most commonly referred to as the Poisson spot, or sometimes the Fresnel bright spot,&quot;Although this phenomenon is often called Poisson's spot, Poisson probably was not happy to have seen it because it supported the wave model of light. The spot is sometimes called Fresnel's spot because it is a direct consequence of his work, and Arago's spot because Arago devised the experiment that confirmed its existence.
Gyrth GodwinsonLeofwine Godwinson
Porcupines are rodentian mammals with a coat of sharp spines, or quills, that protect against predators. The term covers two families of animals, the Old World porcupines of family Hystricidae, and the New World porcupines of family Erethizontidae.
The Mothman Prophecies is a 1975 book by John Keel.Keel, J.
The Limpopo River rises in central southern Africa, and flows generally eastwards to the Indian Ocean. The term Limpopo is the modified version of the original Sepedi name diphororo tša meetse, meaning &quot;gushing strong waterfalls&quot;.
Bourbon whiskey  is a type of American whiskey: a barrel-aged distilled spirit made primarily from corn. The name is derived from the French Bourbon dynasty, although it is unclear precisely what inspired the whiskey's name (contenders include Bourbon County in Kentucky and Bourbon Street in New Orleans).
The CMYK color model (process color, four color) is a subtractive color model, used in color printing, and is also used to describe the printing process itself. CMYK refers to the four inks used in some color printing: cyan, magenta, yellow, and key (black).
The protected areas of South Africa include national parks and marine protected areas managed by the national government, public nature reserves managed by provincial and local governments, and private nature reserves managed by private landowners. Most protected areas are intended for the conservation of flora and fauna.
thumb|300px|French national parks (in red), [[Regional natural parks of France|regional parks (in green) and marine parks (in blue).]]
}}
390 AD
Greenlandic may refer to something of, from, or related to Greenland. It may refer to the following articles:
The &quot;Zinoviev letter&quot; was a controversial document published by the British Daily Mail newspaper four days before the general election in 1924. It purported to be a directive from Grigory Zinoviev, the head of the Communist International (Comintern) in Moscow, to the Communist Party of Great Britain, ordering it to engage in all sorts of seditious activities.
The House of Bourbon (; ) is a European royal house of French origin, a branch of the Capetian dynasty (). Bourbon kings first ruled France and Navarre in the 16th century.
Genre (,  or ; from French genre , &quot;kind&quot; or &quot;sort&quot;, from Latin genus (stem gener-), Greek γένος, génos) is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed upon conventions developed over time.
Ferroelectricity is a property of certain materials that have a spontaneous electric polarization that can be reversed by the application of an external electric field. The term is used in analogy to ferromagnetism, in which a material exhibits a permanent magnetic moment.
Thomas Kyd (baptised 6 November 1558; buried 15 August 1594) was an English playwright, the author of The Spanish Tragedy, and one of the most important figures in the development of Elizabethan drama.
thumb|320px|Comparison of the 'To be, or not to be' soliloquy in the first three editions of Hamlet, showing the varying quality of the text in the [[Hamlet Q1|Bad Quarto (Q1), the Good Quarto (Q2) and the First Folio]]
}}
Karplus–Strong string synthesis is a method of physical modelling synthesis that loops a short waveform through a filtered delay line to simulate the sound of a hammered or plucked string or some types of percussion.
The morality play is a genre of Medieval and early Tudor theatrical entertainment. In their own time, these plays were known as interludes, a broader term for dramas with or without a moral.
thumb|250px|right|Razor wire—long-barb type on top of a [[chain link fence|chain link privacy-fence surrounding a utility power sub-station]]
right|thumb|Soapstone
A judge is a person who [over court] proceedings, either alone or as a part of a [[Judicial panel|panel of judges. The powers, functions, method of appointment, discipline, and training of judges vary widely across different jurisdictions.
A jury is a sworn body of people convened to render an impartial verdict (a finding of fact on a question) officially submitted to them by a court, or to set a penalty or judgment. Modern juries tend to be found in courts to ascertain the guilt, or lack thereof, in a crime.
Intaglio (from  ) is a term from art applied to burial mounds that refers to a design cut into a hard surface. In this case, the burial mounds have designs cut into the ground, though intaglio broadly applies to burial mounds which are raised above the natural surface of the terrain.
Printing is a process for reproducing text and images using a master form or template. The earliest non-paper products involving printing  include cylinder seals and objects such as the Cyrus Cylinder and the Cylinders of Nabonidus.
Magnetoresistance is the tendency of a material to change the value of its electrical resistance in an externally-applied magnetic field. There are a variety of effects that can be called magnetoresistance: some occur in bulk non-magnetic metals and semiconductors, such as geometrical magnetoresistance, Shubnikov de Haas oscillations, or the common positive magnetoresistance in metals.
Chalk () is a soft, white, porous, sedimentary carbonate rock, a form of limestone composed of the mineral calcite. Calcite is an ionic salt called calcium carbonate or CaCO3.
The Bulgars (also Bulghars, Bulgari, Bolgars, Bolghars, Bolgari; Proto-Bulgarians) were semi-nomadic warrior Turkic tribes who flourished in the Pontic-Caspian steppe and the Volga region during the 7th century. Emerging as nomadic equestrians in the Volga-Ural region, according to some researchers their roots can be traced to Central Asia.
Diabetes insipidus (DI) is a condition characterized by large amounts of dilute urine and increased thirst. The amount of urine produced can be nearly 20 liters per day.
An aria (; ; plural: arie , or arias in common usage, diminutive form arietta  or ariette) in music was originally any expressive melody, usually, but not always, performed by a singer. The term became used almost exclusively to describe a self-contained piece for one voice, with or without orchestral accompaniment, normally part of a larger work.
General release:
__NOTOC__
and
National parks of Sweden are managed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) () and owned by the state. The goal of the national park service is to create a system of protected areas that represent all the distinct natural regions of the country.
thumb=Goldbach_partitions_of_the_even_integers_from_4_to_28_300px.png|300px|The even integers from 4 to 28 as sums of two primes: Even integers correspond to horizontal lines.
Confectionery, also called sweets or candy, is sweet food. The term varies among English-speaking countries.
D10, or similar, may refer to:
D6, D.VI, D06 or D.
}}
Carpigiani is an Italian company, located near Bologna, specialising in the production of ice cream making machines.  It claims control of about half of the world market for ice cream machines, including machines both for Italian-style gelato and soft ice cream.
Messina is the third largest city in Sicily.
members
In mathematics, a complete measure (or, more precisely, a complete measure space) is a measure space in which every subset of every null set is measurable (having measure zero). More formally, (X, Σ, μ) is complete if and only if
In mathematics, a complete lattice is a partially ordered set in which all subsets have both a supremum (join) and an infimum (meet). Complete lattices appear in many applications in mathematics and computer science.
, pl. Pugliesi
A dream is a succession of images, ideas, emotions, and sensations that usually occur involuntarily in the mind during certain stages of sleep. The content and purpose of dreams are not fully understood, though they have been a topic of scientific speculation, as well as a subject of philosophical and religious interest, throughout recorded history.
In mathematics, the phrase up to appears in discussions about the elements of a set (say S), and the conditions under which subsets of those elements may be considered equivalent. The statement &quot;elements a and b of set S are equivalent up to X&quot; means that a and b are equivalent if criterion X (such as rotation or permutation) is ignored.
In astronomy, luminosity is the total amount of energy emitted by a star, galaxy, or other astronomical object per unit time. It is related to the brightness, which is the luminosity of an object in a given spectral region.
There were three Battles of Dunbar between England and Scotland.
The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act (EMTALA) is an act of the United States Congress, passed in 1986 as part of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA). It requires hospital Emergency Departments that accept payments from Medicare to provide an appropriate medical screening examination (MSE) to individuals seeking treatment for a medical condition, regardless of citizenship, legal status, or ability to pay.
Nabu-ri-man-nu (also spelled Nabu-rimanni; Greek sources called him Ναβουριανός, Nabourianos, Latin Naburianus) (fl. c.
Falcone}}
thumb|[[Tommaso Buscetta (with sunglasses), the first important pentito of Italian Mafia, escorted into a court of law.]]
A syntactic category is a type of syntactic unit that theories of syntax assume.For the general reasoning behind syntactic categories, see Bach (1974:70-71) and Haegeman (1994:36).
Sicilian cuisine is the style of cooking on the island of Sicily. It shows traces of all cultures that have existed on the island of Sicily over the last two millennia.
Julian Tuwim Monument on Piotrkowska StreetPoznański PalaceWooden Architecture Skansen near the White FactoryŁódź Fabryczna railway stationWinter in Helenów Park
Frutta martorana (also frutta di Martorana or in sicilian frutta Marturana) are traditional marzipan sweets, in the form of fruits and vegetables, from the provinces of Palermo and Messina,Spigoloso.com Sicily.
Pragmatic}}
Sergio Tòfano (20 August 1886 – 28 October 1973) was an Italian actor, director, playwright, scene designer and illustrator.
==Events and trends==
thumb|400px|Schematic map of Rome showing the seven hills
Mortadella () is a large Italian sausage or luncheon meat (salume ) made of finely hashed or ground, heat-cured pork, which incorporates at least 15% small cubes of pork fat (principally the hard fat from the neck of the pig). Mortadella is a product of Bologna, Italy.
A speech act in linguistics and the philosophy of language is an utterance that has performative function in language and communication.
Lower/upper confidence limits}}
In linguistics, deixis ()Oxford English Dictionary 3rd Ed. (2003) refers to words and phrases, such as “me” or “here”, that cannot be fully understood without additional contextual information -- in this case, the identity of the speaker (“me”) and the speaker's location (“here”).
==Events and trends==
Kidinnu (also Kidunnu) (fl. 4th century BC?
Radical Party may refer to:
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
This is a list of events occurring in the 1530s BC, ordered by year.
==Events and trends==
The 1080s BC witnessed the early years of the Iron Age. Many of the great powers of the High Bronze Age in the Western Mediterranean had either collapsed or been severely weakened.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
The 1740s BC was a decade lasting from January 1, 1749 BC to December 31, 1740 BC.
In maritime transportation, the engine department or engineering department is an organizational unit aboard a ship that is responsible for the operation, maintenance, and repair of the propulsion systems and the support systems for crew, passengers, and cargo.Wise Geek: What is the Engine Department on a US Merchant Ship?
Welding is a fabrication or sculptural process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by causing fusion, which is distinct from lower temperature metal-joining techniques such as brazing and soldering, which do not melt the base metal. In addition to melting the base metal, a filler material is typically added to the joint to form a pool of molten material (the weld pool) that cools to form a joint that is usually stronger than the base material.
Vedic may refer to:
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is a play by Edward Albee first staged in 1962.
Franz Peter Schubert (; 31 January 179719 November 1828) was an Austrian composer.
(Arabic)
Mafioso may refer to:
–
Tango is a social dance form including Argentine, Uruguayan, and international ballroom tango.
}}
In politics, a red–green alliance or red–green coalition is an alliance of &quot;red&quot; (often social-democratic or democratic socialist) parties with &quot;green&quot; (often green political, environmentalist or sometimes Nordic agrarian) parties. The alliance is often based on common left political views, especially a shared distrust of corporate or capitalist institutions.
A syllable is a unit of organization for a sequence of speech sounds. For example, the word water is composed of two syllables: wa and ter.
National parks in India are IUCN category II protected areas. India's first national park was established in 1936 as Hailey National Park, now known as Jim Corbett National Park, Uttarakhand.
300px|thumb|right|Honduran mahogany
}}
A World Heritage Site is a landmark or area which has been officially recognized by the United Nations, specifically by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Sites are selected on the basis of having cultural, historical, scientific or some other form of significance, and they are legally protected by international treaties.
Dogma is an official system of principles or tenets of a church, such as Roman Catholicism, or a philosophy such as Stoicism.
The CamorraItalian: ; Neapolitan: . is an Italian Mafia-typeMafia and Mafia-type organizations in Italy , by Umberto Santino, in: Albanese, Das &amp; Verma, Organized Crime.
Year 209 (CCIX) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Commodus and Lollianus (or, less frequently, year 962 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
€83.957 billion (2012)
Year 210 (CCX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Faustinus and Rufinus (or, less frequently, year 963 Ab urbe condita).
UÇK may refer to:
. Cia.
KLA may refer to:
A water tower  is an elevated structure supporting a water tank constructed at a height sufficient to pressurize a water supply system for the distribution of potable water, and to provide emergency storage for fire protection. In some places, the term standpipe is used interchangeably to refer to a water towerNew England Water Supplies – A Brief History, Marcis Kempe, MWRA, NEWWA Journal, September 2006, pages 96-99 Water towers often operate in conjunction with underground or surface service reservoirs, which store treated water close to where it will be used.
Telluride may refer to:
Drake Hotel may refer to:
The National Ice Center (NIC) is a tri-agency operational center whose mission is to provide worldwide navigational ice analyses for the armed forces of the United States, allied nations, and U.S.
Stefano Benni (born 12 August 1947) is an Italian satirical writer, poet and journalist. His books have been translated into around 20 foreign languages and scored notable commercial success.
In statistics, a likelihood function (often simply the likelihood) is a function of the parameters of a statistical model given data.  Likelihood functions play a key role in statistical inference, especially methods of estimating a parameter from a set of statistics.
In everyday speech, a phrase may be any group of words, often carrying a special idiomatic meaning; in this sense it is roughly synonymous with expression. In linguistic analysis, a phrase is a group of words (or possibly a single word) that functions as a constituent in the syntax of a sentence, a single unit within a grammatical hierarchy.
}}
()The pronunciation given is the German one; an English speaker would be likely to render the word as . is a German word designating a person in charge of music-making.
Sampler may refer to:
Sampling may refer to:
In probability theory, the Borel–Cantelli lemma is a theorem about sequences of events. In general, it is a result in measure theory.
Chip carving or chip-carving, kerbschnitt in German, is a style of carving in which knives or chisels are used to remove small chips of the material from a flat surface in a single piece.  The style became important in Migration Period metalwork, mainly Animal style jewellery, where the faceted surfaces created caught the light to give a glinting appearance.
Nicholas V, born Pietro Rainalducci (c. 126016 October 1333) was an antipope in Italy from 12 May 1328 to 25 July 1330 during the pontificate of Pope John XXII (1316–34) at Avignon.
}}
thumb|200px|The Lion Gate at Mycenae (full view) – showing the stepped ramp through it
In category theory, a branch of mathematics, a natural transformation provides a way of transforming one functor into another while respecting the internal structure (i.e.
Mstislav III of Kiev , Mstislav II of Chernigov Yuri II of Vladimir
A straw-man proposal is a brainstormed simple draft proposal intended to generate discussion of its disadvantages and to provoke the generation of new and better proposals. The term is considered American business jargon, but it is also encountered in engineering office culture.
}}
PSD may refer to:
The Memory of Earth (1992) is the first book of the Homecoming Saga by Orson Scott Card.  The award-winning Homecoming saga is a loose sci-fi fictionalization of the first few hundred years recorded in the Book of Mormon.
The Italian Radicals are a liberal political party in Italy, formed in 2001.
In the Star Trek fictional universe, shields refer to a 23rd and 24th century technology that provides starships, space stations, and entire planets with limited protection against damage. They are sometimes referred to as deflectors, deflector shields, and screens (the latter during Star Trek: The Original Series).
Siracusa may refer to:
Masala|other uses}}
Framestore is a British visual effects company based near Oxford Street in London. Formed in 1986, it acquired (and subsequently merged) the Computer Film Company in 1997.
In traditional grammar, a part of speech (abbreviated form: PoS or POS) is a category of words (or, more generally, of lexical items) which have similar grammatical properties. Words that are assigned to the same part of speech generally display similar behavior in terms of syntax—they play similar roles within the grammatical structure of sentences—and sometimes in terms of morphology, in that they undergo inflection for similar properties.
In mathematics, an abelian category is a category in which morphisms and objects can be added and in which kernels and cokernels exist and have desirable properties. The motivating prototype example of an abelian category is the category of abelian groups, Ab.
__NOTOC__
The Transnational Radical Party (TRP) or Nonviolent Radical Party, Transnational and Transparty  is a political association of citizens, members of parliament and members of government of various national and political backgrounds who intend to use nonviolent means to create an effective body of international law with respect for individuals and the affirmation of democracy and freedom throughout the world. The party, as such, does not participate in elections.
Phrase structure rules are a type of rewrite rule used to describe a given language's syntax and are closely associated with the early stages of transformational grammar, being first proposed by Noam Chomsky in 1957.For general discussions of phrase structure rules, see for instance Borsley (1991:34ff.
Semantic properties or meaning properties are those aspects of a linguistic unit, such as a morpheme, word, or sentence, that contribute to the meaning of that unit. Basic semantic properties include being meaningful or meaningless – for example, whether a given word is part of a language's lexicon with a generally understood meaning; polysemy, having multiple, typically related, meanings; ambiguity, having meanings which aren't necessarily related ; and anomaly, where the elements of a unit are semantically incompatible with each other, although possibly grammatically sound.
A semantic class contains words that share a semantic feature.  For example within nouns there are two sub classes, concrete nouns and abstract nouns.
Semantic features represent the basic conceptual components of meaning for any lexical item. An individual semantic feature constitutes one component of a word's intension, which is the inherent sense or concept evoked.
Credit may refer to:
Sting may refer to:
Sixth Column, also known under the title The Day After Tomorrow, is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, based on a story by editor John W.
)
Puppet Master}}
CAD is a commonly used acronym for computer-aided design.
Henry V}}
The following Esperanto libraries and collections of works in the Esperanto language are worthy of note:
Biodiversity, a portmanteau of &quot;bio&quot; (life) and &quot;diversity,&quot; generally refers to the [and variability] of [[life|life on Earth. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, biodiversity typically measures variation at the genetic, the species, and the ecosystem level.
are Japanese playing cards. Playing cards were introduced to Japan by the Portuguese traders during the mid-16th century.
Henry V may refer to:
180px|thumb|right|Marsala wine
Lord Voldemort (,HPL: Lord Voldemort: Quick facts or  in the films; born Tom Marvolo Riddle) is a fictional character and the main antagonist in J. K.
Madeira is a fortified wine made in the Madeira Islands, off the coast of continental Portugal. Madeira is produced in a variety of styles ranging from dry wines which can be consumed on their own as an aperitif to sweet wines usually consumed with dessert.
thumb|The Lunokhod mission diagram.
(rover only)
(rover only)
The Alans (or Alani) were an Iranian nomadic pastoral people of antiquity.
Thematic role is a linguistic notion, which may refer to:
Moor}}
The Headless Horseman is a fictional character that appears in many venues. The term most commonly refers to:
==Events and trends==
In semantics, truth conditions are that which obtain precisely when a sentence is [For example, &quot;It is snowing in Nebraska&quot; is true precisely when it is snowing in Nebraska.
The Wind in the Willows is a children's novel by Kenneth Grahame, first published in 1908. Alternately slow moving and fast paced, it focuses on four anthropomorphised animals in a pastoral version of Edwardian England.
Discourse (from Latin discursus, &quot;running to and from&quot;) denotes written and spoken communications:
thumb|right|Portrait of Georg Major from the Warhaffte Bildnis etlicher Hochloeblichen Fuersten vnd Herrn, 1562
Moonie primarily refers to:
right|thumb|200px|The Shaw Alphabet Edition of [[Androcles and the Lion (play)|Androcles and the Lion, 1962. Paperback cover design by Germano Facetti]]
The Hubble sequence is a morphological classification scheme for galaxies invented by Edwin Hubble in 1926. It is often known colloquially as the Hubble tuning fork diagram because of the shape in which it is traditionally represented.
}}
Tatian of Adiabene, or Tatian the Syrian,Church Fathers: The Other Greek ApologistsCanon and Text of the New TestamentHistory of the Christian Religion to the Year 200 Tatian the Assyrian,The Origins and Emergence of the Church in Edessa during the First Two Centuries A.D.
Chrysolite may refer to:
Peridot ( or ) is gem-quality olivine, which is a silicate mineral with the formula of (Mg, Fe)2SiO4. As peridot is the magnesium-rich variety of olivine (forsterite), the formula approaches Mg2SiO4.
Speech organs or articulators, produce the sounds of language.  Organs used for speech include the lips, teeth, alveolar ridge, hard palate, velum (soft palate), uvula, glottis and various parts of the tongue.
Orthoclase, or orthoclase feldspar (endmember formula KAlSi3O8), is an important tectosilicate mineral which forms igneous rock. The name is from the Ancient Greek for &quot;straight fracture,&quot; because its two cleavage planes are at right angles to each other.
Microcline  (KAlSi3O8) is an important igneous rock-forming tectosilicate mineral. It is a potassium-rich alkali feldspar.
) (same H-M symbol)
) (same H-M symbol)
The Godfather is a crime novel written by Italian American author Mario Puzo. Originally published in 1969 by G.
J. R.
The Carabinieri (formally Arma dei Carabinieri, &quot;Arm of Carabineers&quot; or previously Corpo dei Carabinieri Reali, &quot;Corps of Royal Carabiniers&quot;;Peter G. Stone, Joanne Farchakh Bajjaly, Robert Fisk.
In probability theory and statistics, the negative binomial distribution is a discrete probability distribution of the number of successes in a sequence of independent and identically distributed Bernoulli trials before a specified (non-random) number of failures (denoted r) occurs. For example, if we define a 1 as failure, all non-1s as successes, and we throw a die repeatedly until the third time 1 appears (r = three failures), then the probability distribution of the number of non-1s that had appeared will be a negative binomial.
In computing, a process is an instance of a computer program that is being executed. It contains the program code and its current activity.
The Irving G. Thalberg Memorial Award is awarded periodically by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences at the Governors Awards ceremonies to &quot;Creative producers, whose bodies of work reflect a consistently high quality of motion picture production.
The Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award is awarded periodically by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) at the Governors Awards ceremonies for an individual's outstanding contributions to humanitarian causes. The award category was instituted in 1956 and first awarded at the 29th Academy Awards, in March 1957.
1950
thumb|[[Cognac (brandy)|Cognac brandy in a typical snifter]]
Carl Maria Friedrich Ernst von Weber (18 or 19 November 1786 5 June 1826)Tusa n.d.
Schumann or Schuman is a German surname.  It most famously refers to Robert Schumann (1810–1856), German composer and critic; it may also refer to the following:
In mathematics, the Lp spaces are function spaces defined using a natural generalization of the p-norm for finite-dimensional vector spaces. They are sometimes called Lebesgue spaces, named after Henri Lebesgue , although according to the Bourbaki group  they were first introduced by Frigyes Riesz .
Vizcaya may refer to:
In mathematics, an injective function or injection or one-to-one function is a function that preserves distinctness: it never maps distinct elements of its domain to the same element of its codomain. In other words, every element of the function's codomain is the image of at most one element of its domain.
Inversion}}
Universal algebra (sometimes called general algebra) is the field of mathematics that studies algebraic structures themselves, not examples (&quot;models&quot;) of algebraic structures.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
A submarine communications cable is a cable laid on the sea bed between land-based stations to carry telecommunication signals across stretches of ocean.  The first submarine communications cables, laid in the 1850s, carried telegraphy traffic.
A communications satellite is an artificial satellite that relays and amplifies radio telecommunications signals via a transponder; it creates a communication channel between a source transmitter and a receiver at different locations on Earth. Communications satellites are used for television, telephone, radio, internet, and military applications.
Timberline may refer to:
(in Gmina Orla, Gmina Narewka, Gmina Czyże, Gmina Hajnówka and town of Hajnówka)
Alistair Leslie Graham, better known as Ali G, is a satirical fictional character created and performed by British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen. Originally appearing on Channel 4's The 11 O'Clock Show, and subsequently as the title character of Channel 4's Da Ali G Show in 2000 and on HBO in 2003–2004, he is also the title character of the film Ali G Indahouse.
Snark may refer to:
The Hunting of the Snark (An Agony in 8 Fits) is a poem written by English writer Lewis Carroll. It is typically categorised as a nonsense poem.
Congruence (symbol: ≅) is the state achieved by coming together, the state of agreement. The Latin , first discovered by Ramanujan in 1919
}}
In mathematics, a subalgebra is a subset of an algebra, closed under all its operations, and carrying the induced operations.
In the various branches of mathematics that fall under the heading of abstract algebra, the kernel of a homomorphism measures the degree to which the homomorphism fails to be injective.See  and .
In mathematics, specifically abstract algebra, the isomorphism theorems are three theorems that describe the relationship between quotients, homomorphisms, and subobjects.  Versions of the theorems exist for groups, rings, vector spaces, modules, Lie algebras, and various other algebraic structures.
Chacmool (also spelled chac-mool) is the term used to refer to a particular form of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican sculpture depicting a reclining figure with its head facing 90 degrees from the front, supporting itself on its elbows and supporting a bowl or a disk upon its stomach. These figures possibly symbolised slain warriors carrying offerings to the gods; the bowl upon the chest was used to hold sacrificial offerings, including pulque, tamales, tortillas, tobacco, turkeys, feathers and incense.
* Roadrunner
Interface}}
The Annotated Alice is a work by Martin Gardner incorporating the text of Lewis Carroll's major tales, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass, as well as the original illustrations by John Tenniel. It has extensive annotations explaining the contemporary references (including the Victorian poems that Carroll parodies), mathematical concepts, word play, and Victorian traditions (such as the snap-dragons) featured in the two books.
Orange County may refer to:
Clear and present danger was a doctrine adopted by the Supreme Court of the United States to determine under what circumstances limits can be placed on First Amendment freedoms of speech, press, or assembly.
Biosafety is the prevention of large-scale loss of biological integrity, focusing both on ecology and human health.
Safe trade is a slogan advocated by Greenpeace in its desire to &quot;green&quot; the World Trade Organisation and the Doha Development Round.  It is designed to compete with &quot;free trade&quot; as a concept.
Biosecurity has multiple meanings and is defined differently according to various disciplines. The original definition of biosecurity started out as a set of preventive measures designed to reduce the risk of transmission of infectious diseases in crops and livestock, quarantined pests, invasive alien species, and living modified organisms (Koblentz, 2010).
The De Bruijn–Newman constant, denoted by Λ and named after Nicolaas Govert de Bruijn and Charles M. Newman, is a mathematical constant defined via the zeros of a certain function H(λ, z), where λ is a real parameter and z is a complex variable.
}}
An infinite loop (or endless loop) is a sequence of instructions in a computer program which loops endlessly, either due to the loop having no terminating condition, having one that can never be met, or one that causes the loop to start over. In older operating systems with cooperative multitasking, infinite loops normally caused the entire system to become unresponsive.
Military fiat is a process whereby a decision is made and enforced by military means without the participation of other political elements. The Latin term fiat, translated as &quot;let it be,&quot; suggests the autocratic attitude ascribed to such a process.
NGO is an abbreviation for non-governmental organization.
St. Cuthbert of Lindisfarne () was an Anglo-Saxon saint, bishop, monk and hermit.
Sir Arthur Seymour Sullivan MVO (13 May 1842 – 22 November 1900) was an English composer.  He is best known for his series of 14 operatic collaborations with the dramatist W.
Indigenous peoples, also known as first peoples, aboriginal peoples, native peoples, or autochthonous peoples, are ethnic groups who are descended from and identify with the original inhabitants of a given region, in contrast to groups that have settled, occupied or colonized the area more recently. Groups are usually described as indigenous when they maintain traditions or other aspects of an early culture that is associated with a given region.
as does the entry for the Oxford Dictionary of Saints and the entry in the Blackwell Encyclopaedia of Anglo-Saxon England. He is called Cuthbert of Lindisfarne by Michael Walsh in A New Dictionary of Saints.
thumb|[[Mars Exploration Rover (MER) aeroshell, artistic rendition]]
==Events and trends==
Thread or threads may refer to:
In computer science, a thread of execution is the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by a scheduler, which is typically a part of the operating system. The implementation of threads and processes differs between operating systems, but in most cases a thread is a component of a process.
In mathematics, a Clifford algebra is an algebra generated by a vector space with a quadratic form, and is a unital associative algebra. As K-algebras, they generalize the real numbers, complex numbers, quaternions and several other hypercomplex number systems.
Atomic electron transition is a change of an electron from one energy level to another within an atomSchombert, James. &quot;Quantum physics&quot; University of Oregon Department of Physics or artificial atom.
Quadruple Alliance may refer to:
History of Jordan refers to the history of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and the background period of the Emirate of Transjordan under British protectorate as well as the general history of the region of Transjordan.
The following are lists of people who play football.
A flange is an   external or internal ridge, or rim (lip), for strength, as the flange of an iron beam such as an I-beam or a T-beam; or for attachment to another object, as the flange on the end of a pipe, steam cylinder, etc., or on the lens mount of a camera; or for a flange of a rail car or tram wheel.
Professor Albus Percival Wulfric Brian Dumbledore  is a fictional character in J. K.
}}
(&quot;Never Tickle a Sleeping Dragon&quot;)
USC may refer to:
In economics, Gresham's law is a monetary principle stating that &quot;bad money drives out good&quot;. For example, if there are two forms of commodity money in circulation, which are
The European Language Council is a permanent and independent association whose main aim is the quantitative and qualitative improvement of knowledge of the languages and cultures of the European Union and beyond.  Membership is open to all institutions of higher education and all national and international associations with a special interest in languages.
In game theory, the Nash equilibrium is a solution concept of a non-cooperative game involving two or more players in which each player is assumed to know the equilibrium strategies of the other players, and no player has anything to gain by changing only his own strategy.Osborne, Martin J.
Feline may refer to:
thumb|right|William Byrd
Collision is used in two slightly different senses in theoretical computer science and telecommunications. In computer science it refers to a situation where a function maps two distinct inputs to the same output.
Alban Butler, Paul Burns. Butler's Lives of the Saints: February, p.
}}
The national park system of Kenya is maintained by the Kenya Wildlife Service. There are two main types of terrestrial protected areas in Kenya: national parks, and national reserves; there are also marine parks and marine reserves.
A writer is a person who uses written words in various styles and techniques to communicate their ideas. Writers produce various forms of literary art and creative writing such as novels, short stories, poetry, plays, screenplays, and essays as well as various reports and news articles that may be of interest to the public.
Vecchio (; plural vecchi, meaning &quot;old one&quot; or simply &quot;old&quot;), is a category of aged, male characters from the Italian commedia dell'arte. The primary members of this group are Pantalone, Il DottoreRobert Henke Performance and literature in the commedia dell'arte, Improvvisation and characters, Individual roles, pp.
Pantalone , spelled Pantaloon in English,Pantaloon is the spelling of the character's name in English Harlequinades. Shakespeare uses the English spelling in As You Like It, Act 2, scene 7, as does Randolph T.
right|thumb|250px|Baccarat pallet and cards
Bactria or Bactriana was the name of a historical region in Central Asia.   Bactria was located between the Hindu Kush mountain range and the Amu Darya river, covering the flat region that straddles modern-day Afghanistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.
(aged 59)
thumb|A map location of the [[Amazon rainforest ecoregions. The yellow line encloses the ecoregions per the World Wide Fund for Nature.
Polish literature is the literary tradition of Poland. Most Polish literature has been written in the Polish language, though other languages used in Poland over the centuries have also contributed to Polish literary traditions, including Latin, Yiddish, Lithuanian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, German and Esperanto.
==Events and trends==
==Events==
The Nearctic is one of the eight biogeographic realms constituting the Earth's land surface.
The Neotropical realm is one of the eight biogeographic realms constituting the Earth's land surface. Physically, it includes the tropical terrestrial ecoregions of the Americas and the entire South American temperate zone.
}}
==Events and trends==
(aged 54)
A tribe is viewed, developmentally or historically, as a social group existing before the development of nation states, or outside them. A tribe is a group of distinct people, dependent on their land for their livelihood, who are largely self-sufficient, and not integrated into the national society.
Richard D'Oyly Carte (3 May 1844 – 3 April 1901) was an English talent agent, theatrical impresario, composer and hotelier during the latter half of the Victorian era. Rising from humble beginnings, Carte built two of London's theatres and a hotel empire, while also establishing an opera company that ran continuously for over a hundred years and a management agency representing some of the most important artists of the day.
()
}}
Pane carasau (; ) is a traditional flatbread from Sardinia.
}}
In mathematics, a probability measure is a real-valued function defined on a set of events in a probability space that satisfies measure properties such as countable additivity.An introduction to measure-theoretic probability by George G.
Painterliness is a concept based on the German term  (painterly), a word popularized by Swiss art historian Heinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945) to help focus, enrich and standardize the terms being used by art historians of his time to characterize works of art.  It is the opposite of linear, plastic or formal linear design.
thumb|right|[[François Quesnay, considered the founding father of Physiocracy. Published the &quot;Tableau économique&quot; (Economic Table) in 1758.
The conservation movement, also known as nature conservation, is a political, environmental and a social movement that seeks to protect natural resources including animal and plant species as well as their habitat for the future.
Autarky is the quality of being self-sufficient. Usually the term is applied to political states or their economic systems.
Gaian may refer to:
In economic theory, imperfect competition is a type of market structure showing some but not all features of competitive markets.
thumb|400px |right| alt=A picture of rice fields: evidence of the interaction of culture, economics and the environment |Political ecology studies the complex interaction between economics, politics, technology, social tradition and the biological environment. These terraced rice fields in [[Yunnan, China, evidence how the environment is shaped by and shapes economy and society.
border
Frederick County is a county located in the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 78,305.
Frederick County is the name of two counties in the United States.
border
In electronics, a crossbar switch (cross-point switch, matrix switch) is a collection of switches arranged in a matrix configuration. A crossbar switch has multiple input and output lines that form a crossed pattern of interconnecting lines between which a connection may be established by closing a switch located at each intersection, the elements of the matrix.
Crossbar may refer to:
In computer science, control flow (or flow of control) is the order in which individual statements, instructions or function calls of an imperative program are executed or evaluated. The emphasis on explicit control flow distinguishes an imperative programming language from a declarative programming language.
Pareto efficiency or Pareto optimality is a state of allocation of resources from which it is impossible to reallocate so as to make any one individual or preference criterion better off without making at least one  individual or preference criterion worse off. The concept is named after Vilfredo Pareto (1848–1923), Italian engineer and economist, who used the concept in his studies of economic efficiency and income distribution.
}}
In economics, utility is a measure of preferences over some set of goods (including services: something that satisfies human wants); it represents satisfaction experienced by the consumer of a good.  The concept is an important underpinning of rational choice theory in economics and game theory: since one cannot directly measure benefit, satisfaction or happiness from a good or service, economists instead have devised ways of representing and measuring utility in terms of measurable economic choices.
Life After Life is a 1975 book written by psychiatrist Raymond Moody. It is a report on a qualitative study in which Moody interviewed 150 people who had undergone near-death experiences (NDEs).
I Am Legend is a 1954 science fiction  horror novel by American writer Richard Matheson. It was influential in the development of the zombie-vampire genre of fiction, and in popularizing the concept of a worldwide apocalypse due to disease.
Ken Ring}}
right|thumb|250px|The [[Great Lakes from space.]]
World peace or peace on Earth is an ideal state of freedom, peace, and happiness among and within all nations and people. This ideal of world non-violence provides a basis for peoples and nations to willingly cooperate, either voluntarily or by virtue of a system of governance that prevents warfare.
A free good is a good that is not scarce, and therefore is available without limits.&quot;Fake Guide to Economics&quot; (1901) McPublisher,  ; Joseph Brennan|date=March 2017}} with William D.
The seven deadly sins, also known as the capital vices or cardinal sins, is a grouping and classification of Christian origin, of vices. Behaviours or habits are classified under this category if they directly give birth to other immoralities.
The Toltec culture is an archaeological Mesoamerican culture that dominated a state centered in Tula, Hidalgo, Mexico in the early post-classic period of Mesoamerican chronology (ca. 900–1168 CE).
A pseudorandom number generator (PRNG), also known as a deterministic random bit generator (DRBG), is  an algorithm for generating a sequence of numbers whose properties approximate the properties of sequences of random numbers. The PRNG-generated sequence is not truly random, because it is completely determined by an initial value, called the PRNG's seed (which may include truly random values).
thumb|480px|Visualisation of generation of pseudo-random numbers in [0, 8] using a linear congruential generator. The top two rows show a generator with m = 9, a = 2 and c = 0 outputting numbers from left to right until the output equals the seed, when the sequence repeats.
In microeconomic theory, the opportunity cost, also known as alternative cost, is the value (not a benefit) of the choice of a best alternative cost while making a decision. A choice needs to be made between several mutually exclusive alternatives; assuming the best choice is made, it is the &quot;cost&quot; incurred by not enjoying the benefit that would have been had by taking the second best available choice.
Alessi is a housewares and kitchen utensil company in Italy, producing everyday items from plastic and metal, created by famous designers.
Ustad Isa Shirazi  ( translation Master Isa) was a Persian architect, often described as the chief architect of the Taj Mahal in Agra, India.
The Mersenne Twister is a pseudorandom number generator (PRNG). It is by far the most widely used general-purpose PRNG.
The term Social Darwinism is used to refer to various ways of thinking and theories that emerged in the second half of the 19th century and tried to apply the evolutionary concept of natural selection to human society. The term itself emerged in the 1880s, and it gained widespread currency when used after 1944 by opponents of these ways of thinking.
West Timor () is the western and Indonesian portion of the island of Timor and part of the province of East Nusa Tenggara ().
United Nations trust territories were the successors of the remaining League of Nations mandates, and came into being when the League of Nations ceased to exist in 1946. All of the trust territories were administered through the United Nations Trusteeship Council.
Dili
border
The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international agreement on biosafety as a supplement to the Convention on Biological Diversity effective since 2003. The Biosafety Protocol seeks to protect biological diversity from the potential risks posed by genetically modified organisms resulting from modern biotechnology.
border
In mathematics, a Dedekind cut is а method of construction of the real numbers.
thumb|250px|right|The making of a DNA vaccine.
Southern Schleswig ( or , ) is the southern half of the former Duchy of Schleswig Kathrin Sinner: Schleswig-Holstein - das nördliche Bundesland: Räumliche Verortung als kulturelles Identitäskonstruk, page 86 in Germany on the Jutland Peninsula. The geographical area today covers the large area between the Eider river in the south and the Flensburg Fjord in the north,Sønderjylland A-Å, Aabenraa 2011, page 364 where it borders Denmark.
Coontie Dunnygal / Coontie Dinnygal}}
}}
Slesvig}}
Biodefense refers to measures to restore biosecurity to a group of organisms who are, or may be, subject to biological threats or infectious diseases. Biodefense is frequently discussed in the context of biowar or bioterrorism, and is generally considered a military or emergency response term.
(October 22, 1197 – October 7, 1242) was the 84th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. His reign spanned the years from 1210 through 1221.
In economics, an indifference curve connects points on a graph representing different quantities of two goods, points between which a consumer is indifferent.  That is, the consumer has no preference for one combination or bundle of goods over a different combination on the same curve.
Chukyo can refer to:
(March 22, 1212 – August 31, 1234) was the 86th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. This reign spanned the years from 1221 through 1232.
literally means star in Japanese. It may refer to:
Emperor Go-Saga (後嵯峨天皇 Go-Saga-tennō) (April 1, 1220 – March 17, 1272) was the 88th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. This reign spanned the years 1242 through 1246.
Kameyama may refer to:
Walter J. Mahoney
Middle Cretaceous - recent
Surgery (from the  cheirourgikē (composed of χείρ, &quot;hand&quot;, and ἔργον, &quot;work&quot;), via , meaning &quot;hand work&quot;) is an ancient medical specialty that uses operative manual and instrumental techniques on a patient to investigate or treat a pathological condition such as a disease or injury, to help improve bodily function or appearance or to repair unwanted ruptured areas (for example, a perforated ear drum).
Reed–Solomon codes are a group of error-correcting codes that were introduced by Irving S. Reed and Gustave Solomon in 1960.
Biosecurity protocol refers to several politically controversial attempts to unify global biosecurity measures and responses, in a similar manner to a biosafety protocol. Although some propose a &quot;Biosecurity Protocol&quot; to extend the Biosafety Protocol to organisms considered weapons (already controlled by UN arms proliferation treaties), others argue this is an inappropriate response to military threats, and argue for a broad biodefense instead.
A Lagged Fibonacci generator (LFG or sometimes LFib) is an example of a pseudorandom number generator. This class of random number generator is aimed at being an improvement on the 'standard' linear congruential generator.
right|thumb|An arrangement of psychoactive drugs
The Iranian Green Movement (), also known as the Persian Awakening by the western media, refers to a political movement that arose after the 2009 Iranian presidential election, in which protesters demanded the removal of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad from office. Green was initially used as the symbol of Mir Hossein Mousavi's campaign, but after the election it became the symbol of unity and hope for those asking for annulment of what they regarded as a fraudulent election.
An informer, or informant, is a person who provides privileged information to an agency.
IIRC may refer to:
Peter III may refer to:
The Telephony Application Programming Interface (TAPI) is a Microsoft Windows API, which provides computer telephony integration and enables PCs running Microsoft Windows to use telephone services. Different versions of TAPI are available on different versions of Windows.
Economic history is the study of economies or economic phenomena of the past. Analysis in economic history is undertaken using a combination of historical methods, statistical methods and the application of economic theory to historical situations and institutions.
Thread safety is a computer programming concept applicable to multi-threaded code. Thread-safe code only manipulates shared data structures in a manner that ensures that all threads behave properly and fulfil their design specifications without unintended interaction.
}}
Undocumented features are frequently found in software releases. Sometimes the documentation is omitted through simple oversight, but undocumented features are often elements of the software not intended for use by end users, but left available for use by the vendor for software support and development.
UPS or ups may refer to:
Demography (from prefix demo- from Ancient Greek δῆμος dēmos meaning &quot;the people&quot;, and -graphy from γράφω graphō, implies &quot;writing, description or measurement&quot;See for etymology (origins) of demography.) is the statistical study of populations, especially human beings.
}}
thumb|right|250px|Tale of Bygone Years in [[Radziwiłł Chronicle]]
thumb|The ending of Schoenberg's &quot;[[The Book of the Hanging Gardens|George Lieder&quot; Op. 15/1 presents what would be an &quot;extraordinary&quot; chord in tonal music, without the harmonic-contrapuntal constraints of tonal music .
Inverse transform sampling (also known as inversion sampling, the inverse probability integral transform, the inverse transformation method, Smirnov transform, golden ruleAalto University, N. Hyvönen, Computational methods in inverse problems.
}}
A coordinate covalent bond, also known as a dative bond or coordinate bond is a kind of 2-center, 2-electron covalent bond in which the two electrons derive from the same atom.  The bonding of metal ions to ligands involves this kind of interaction.
Forensic science is the application of science to criminal and civil laws, mainly—on the criminal side—during criminal investigation, as governed by the legal standards of admissible evidence and criminal procedure.
Solanum trongum
}}
Late Cretaceous- Recent
A transporter is a fictional teleportation machine used in the Star Trek universe. Transporters convert a person or object into an energy pattern (a process called dematerialization), then &quot;beam&quot; it to a target, where it is reconverted into matter (rematerialization).
A hamburger or burger is a sandwich consisting of one or more cooked patties of ground meat, usually beef, placed inside a sliced bread roll or bun. The patty may be pan fried, barbecued, or flame broiled.
1550,(attr. Jacques Le Boucq)
Visual DialogScript (VDS) is an interpreted programming language for Microsoft Windows. It can be used to create small, fast programs.
}}
list of Star Wars weapons}}
A chariot is a type of carriage driven by a charioteer using primarily horses to provide rapid motive power. Chariots were used by armies as transport or mobile archery platforms, for hunting or for racing, and as a conveniently fast way to travel for many ancient people.
In mathematics, a topological vector space (also called a linear topological space) is one of the basic structures investigated in functional analysis. As the name suggests the space blends a topological structure (a uniform structure to be precise) with the algebraic concept of a vector space.
Where Mathematics Comes From: How the Embodied Mind Brings Mathematics into Being (hereinafter WMCF) is a book by George Lakoff, a cognitive linguist, and Rafael E. Núñez, a psychologist.
, ; main crystal:  on edge)
Fushimi may refer to:
Hanazono is a Japanese surname, which can refer to:
Emperor Go-Daigo (後醍醐天皇 Go-Daigo-tennō) (November 26, 1288 – September 19, 1339) was the 96th emperor of Japan,Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  後醍醐天皇 (96); retrieved 2013-8-28. according to the traditional order of succession.
Emperor Chōkei (長慶天皇 Chōkei-tennō) (1343 – August 27, 1394) was the 98th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession. He reigned from 1368 through 1383.
(c. 1347 – May 10, 1424) was the 99th emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.
Leopoldville}}
Colonization (or colonisation) is a process by which a central system of power dominates the surrounding land and its components.
The Representation of the People Act 1832 (known informally as the 1832 Reform Act, Great Reform Act or First Reform Act to distinguish it from subsequent Reform Acts) was an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom (indexed as 2 &amp; 3 Will. IV c.
This is a list of sculptors - notable people who are known for their three-dimensional artistic creations (this can include artists who use sound and light).
The genotype–phenotype distinction is drawn in genetics.  &quot;Genotype&quot; is an organism's full hereditary information.
Biomimetics or biomimicry is the imitation of the models, systems, and elements of nature for the purpose of solving complex human problems. The terms &quot;biomimetics&quot; and &quot;biomimicry&quot; derive from  (bios), life, and μίμησις (mīmēsis), imitation, from μιμεῖσθαι (mīmeisthai), to imitate, from μῖμος (mimos), actor.
Natural capital is the world's stock of natural resources, which includes geology, soils, air, water and all living organisms. Some natural capital assets provide people with free goods and services, often called ecosystem services.
Public capital is the aggregate body of government-owned assets that are used as a means for productivity.Aschauer, D.
In economics, physical capital or just capital is a factor of production (or input into the process of production), consisting of machinery, buildings, computers, and the like. The production function takes the general form Y=f(K, L), where Y is the amount of output produced, K is the amount of capital stock used and L is the amount of labor used.
Social capital is a form of economic and cultural capital in which social networks are central, transactions are marked by reciprocity, trust, and cooperation, and market agents produce goods and services not mainly for themselves, but for a common good.
Individual capital, the economic view of talent, comprises inalienable or personal traits of persons, tied to their bodies and available only through their own free will, such as skill, creativity, enterprise, courage, capacity for moral example,  non-communicable wisdom, invention or empathy, non-transferable personal trust and leadership.
}}
}}
thumb|400px|right|Capital exports in 2006
Dijkstra's algorithm is an algorithm for finding the shortest paths between nodes in a graph, which may represent, for example, road networks.  It was conceived by computer scientist Edsger W.
A subwoofer (or sub) is a woofer, or a complete loudspeaker, which is dedicated to the reproduction of low-pitched audio frequencies known as bass. The typical frequency range for a subwoofer is about 20–200 Hz for consumer products, below 100 Hz for professional live sound, and below 80 Hz in THX-approved systems.
An eponym is a person, place, or thing for whom or for which something is named, or believed to be named. For example, Elizabeth I of England is the eponym of the Elizabethan era.
Structural engineering is mainly a sub-division of civil engineering in which structural engineers are trained to understand, predict, and calculate the stability, strength and rigidity of built structures for buildingsFAO online publication and nonbuilding structures, to develop designs and integrate their design with that of other designers, and to supervise construction of projects on site. They can also be involved in the design of machinery, medical equipment, and vehicles where structural integrity affects functioning and safety.
A gyrocompass is a type of non-magnetic compass which is based on a fast-spinning disc and the rotation of the Earth (or another planetary body if used elsewhere in the universe) to find geographical direction automatically. Although one important component of a gyrocompass is a gyroscope, these are not the same devices; a gyrocompass is built to use the effect of gyroscopic precession, which is a distinctive aspect of the general gyroscopic effect.
Paladino}}
Optima is a humanist sans-serif typeface designed by Hermann Zapf and released by the D. Stempel AG foundry, Frankfurt, Germany.
}}
}}
thumb|A lodging cottage in a rural area of [[Lithuania]]
The Chinese democracy movement (), abbreviated as Minyun (), refers to a series of loosely organized political movements in the People's Republic of China against the continued one-party rule by the Communist Party. One such movement began during the Beijing Spring in 1978 and was taken up again in the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989.
}}
A monastery is a building or complex of buildings comprising the domestic quarters and workplaces of monastics, monks or nuns, whether living in communities or alone (hermits). A monastery generally includes a place reserved for prayer which may be a chapel, church or temple, and may also serve as an oratory.
In mathematics, a Hurwitz polynomial, named after Adolf Hurwitz, is a polynomial  whose roots (zeros) are located in the left half-plane of the complex plane or on the imaginary  axis, that is, the real part of every root is zero or negative.  Such a polynomial must have coefficients that are positive real numbers.
Intellectual capital is the intangible value of a business, covering its people (human capital), the value inherent in its relationships (Relational capital), and everything that is left when the employees go homeEdvinsson L, Malone M S, Intellectual Capital: Realizing Your Company’s True Value by Finding its Hidden Brainpower, HarperBusiness Press, New York, NY, 1997(Structural capital), of which Intellectual property (IP) is but one component.Luthy, David H.
A raster image processor (RIP) is a component used in a printing system which produces a raster image also known as a bitmap. Such a bitmap is used by a later stage of the printing system to produce the printed output.
Amaya may refer to:
The National Center for Supercomputing Applications (NCSA) is a state-federal partnership to develop and deploy national-scale cyberinfrastructure that advances research, science and engineering based in the United States of America. NCSA operates as a unit of the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign,
Ladin ( or ; , , ) is a Romance language consisting of a group of dialects (which some consider part of a unitary Rhaeto-Romance language) mainly spoken in the Dolomite Mountains in Northern Italy in South Tyrol, the Trentino and the province of Belluno by the Ladin people. It exhibits similarities to Swiss Romansh and Friulian.
A loudspeaker (or loud-speaker or speaker) is an electroacoustic transducer; which converts an electrical audio signal into a corresponding sound.
In military strategy, assured destruction is where behaviors or choices are deterred because they will lead to overwhelming punitive consequences. It was most often discussed as mutually assured destruction (MAD), assuming there are exactly two parties in the conflict.
}}
Sigmoid means resembling the lower-case Greek letter sigma (ς) or the Latin letter S.  Specific uses include:
The line printer is an impact printer that prints one entire line of text at a time. It is mostly associated with unit record equipment and the early days of digital computing, but the technology is still in use.
A cathedral is a Christian church which contains the seat of a bishop,Shorter Oxford English Dictionary,  thus serving as the central church of a diocese, conference, or episcopate. The counterpart term for such a church in German is Dom from Latin domus ecclesiae or domus episcopalis; also Italian Duomo, Dutch Domkerk and cognates in many other European languages.
==Events and trends==
In number theory, the Fermat pseudoprimes make up the most important class of pseudoprimes that come from Fermat's little theorem.
==Events and trends==
The Man in the High Castle (1962) is an alternative history novel by American writer Philip K. Dick.
rate, or inverse scale
Beyond This Horizon is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein.
Rocket Ship Galileo is a juvenile science fiction novel by  American writer Robert A. Heinlein, published in 1947, about three teenagers who participate in a pioneering flight to the Moon.
Space Cadet is a 1948 science fiction novel by Robert A. Heinlein about Matt Dodson, who joins the Space Patrol to help preserve peace in the Solar System.
Red Planet is a nickname for the planet Mars, due to its surface color.
Humpty Dumpty is a character in an English nursery rhyme, probably originally a riddle and one of the best known in the English-speaking world. He is typically portrayed as a personified egg, though he is not explicitly described so.
Between Planets is a juvenile science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, originally serialized in Blue Book magazine in 1951 as &quot;Planets in Combat&quot;.
The Academy Awards for Best Dance Direction (1935–1937 only)
Starman Jones is a 1953 science fiction novel by Robert A. Heinlein about a farm boy who wants to go to the stars.
\!
Podkayne of Mars is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, originally serialised in Worlds of If (November 1962, January, March 1963), and published in hardcover in 1963.
right|thumb|Examples of index fossils
Spirit possession is a term for the belief that animas, demons, extraterrestrials, gods, or spirits can take control of a human body. The concept of spirit possession exists in many religions, including Christianity,Mark 5:9, Luke 8:30 Buddhism, Haitian Vodou, Wicca, Hinduism, Islam and Southeast Asian and African traditions.
In economics, general equilibrium theory attempts to explain the behavior of supply, demand, and prices in a whole economy with several or many interacting markets, by seeking to prove that the interaction of demand and supply will result in an overall general equilibrium. General equilibrium theory contrasts to the theory of partial equilibrium, which only analyzes single markets.
Primary Colors}}
The swastika (as a character 卐 or 卍) is an ancient religious icon used in the Indian subcontinent, East Asia and Southeast Asia, where it has been and remains a sacred symbol of spiritual principles in Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism. In the Western world, it was historically a symbol of auspiciousness and good luck, but in the 1930s, it became the main feature of Nazi symbolism as an emblem of Aryan race identity, and as a result, it has become stigmatized in the West by association with ideas of racism, hate, and mass murder.
--
In the first year of this award it referred to no specific film
In nuclear strategy, minimal deterrence (also called minimum deterrence) is an application of deterrence theory in which a state possesses no more nuclear weapons than is necessary to deter an adversary from attacking.Kristensen, Norris and Oelrich 2009, 21  Pure minimal deterrence is a doctrine of no first use, holding that the only mission of nuclear weapons is to deter a nuclear adversary by making the cost of a first strike unacceptably high.
In psychology and psychiatry, clanging refers to a mode of speech characterized by association of words based upon sound rather than concepts. For example, this may include compulsive rhyming or alliteration without apparent logical connection between words.
Mutual assured destruction or mutually assured destruction (MAD) is a doctrine of military strategy and national security policy in which a full-scale use of nuclear weapons by two or more opposing sides would cause the complete annihilation of both the attacker and the defender (see pre-emptive nuclear strike and second strike).Mutual Assured Destruction; Col.
Nuclear strategy involves the development of doctrines and strategies for the production and use of nuclear weapons.
A cloaking device is a theoretical or fictional stealth technology that can cause objects, such as spaceships or individuals, to be partially or wholly invisible to parts of the electromagnetic (EM) spectrum. However, over the entire spectrum, a cloaked object scatters more than an uncloaked object.
In linguistic typology, an analytic language is a language with a low morpheme-per-word ratio, as opposed to synthetic language,  with a high morpheme-per-word ratio. An analytic language conveys grammatical relationships with relatively minimal use, or in some cases no use, of inflectional morphemes.
No first use (NFU) refers to a pledge or a policy by a nuclear power not to use nuclear weapons as a means of warfare unless first attacked by an adversary using nuclear weapons. Earlier, the concept had also been applied to chemical and biological warfare.
The Compromise of 1850 was a package of five separate bills passed by the United States Congress in September 1850, which defused a four-year political confrontation between slave and free states on the status of territories acquired during the Mexican–American War (1846–1848). The compromise, drafted by Whig Senator Henry Clay of Kentucky and brokered by Clay and Democratic Senator Stephen Douglas of Illinois, reduced sectional conflict.
The term ergative is used in grammar in three different meanings:
The grandfather paradox is a paradox of time travel in which inconsistencies emerge through changing the past. The name comes from the paradox's common description: a person travels to the past and kills their own grandfather before the conception of their father or mother, which prevents the time traveler's existence.
A building or edifice is a structure with a roof and walls standing more or less permanently in one place, such as a house or factory. Buildings come in a variety of sizes, shapes and functions, and have been adapted throughout history for a wide number of factors, from building materials available, to weather conditions, to land prices, ground conditions, specific uses and aesthetic reasons.
The McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet is a twin-engine supersonic, all-weather carrier-capable multirole combat jet, designed as both a fighter and attack aircraft (hence the F/A designation). Designed by McDonnell Douglas (now Boeing) and Northrop, the F/A-18 was derived from the latter's YF-17 in the 1970s for use by the United States Navy and Marine Corps.
}
}}
Pax AmericanaJoseph S. Nye, Jr.
The Common Language Runtime (CLR), the virtual machine component of Microsoft's .NET framework, manages the execution of .
Common Intermediate Language (CIL, pronounced either &quot;sil&quot; or &quot;kil&quot;), formerly called Microsoft Intermediate Language or MSIL, is the lowest-level human-readable programming language defined by the Common Language Infrastructure (CLI) specification and is used by the .NET Framework and Mono.
Freedom of religion or freedom of belief is a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance. It also includes the freedom to change one's religion or belief.
thumb|180px|Psion Organiser II
}}
==Events and trends==
}}
The omnipotence paradox is a family of paradoxes that arise with some understandings of the term 'omnipotent'. The paradox arises, for example, If one assumes that an omnipotent being has no limits and is capable of realizing any outcome, even logically contradictory ideas such as creating square circles.
• Küçük Kaynarca• Edirne
Wisdom or  sapience is the ability to think and act using knowledge, experience, understanding, common sense, and insight. There appears to be consensus that wisdom is associated with attributes such as compassion, experiential self-knowledge, non-attachment and virtues such as ethics and benevolence.
Alleghany County (also spelled Allegany County and Allegheny County) is the name of five counties in the United States of America:
Alfred Bester, &quot;United States Social Security Death Index&quot;. &quot;United States Social Security Death Index,&quot; index, FamilySearch, Alfred Bester, September 1987.
Miocene to Recent
A pen name (nom de plume, or literary double) is a pseudonym (or, in some cases, a variant form of a real name) adopted by an author and printed on the title page or by-line of his or her works in place of their &quot;real&quot; name. A pen name may be used to make the author's name more distinctive, to disguise his or her gender, to distance an author from some or all of his or her previous works, to protect the author from retribution for his or her writings, to combine more than one author into a single author, or for any of a number of reasons related to the marketing or aesthetic presentation of the work.
Political economy is a term used for studying production and trade, and their relations with law, custom, and government, as well as with the distribution of national income and wealth. Political economy originated in moral philosophy.
Psychedelic}}
99
Smoke testing}}
Human resources are the people who make up the workforce of an organization, business sector, or economy. &quot;Human capital&quot; is sometimes used synonymously with &quot;human resources&quot;, although human capital typically refers to a more narrow view (i.
Nuclear blackmail is a form of nuclear strategy in which an aggressor uses the threat of use of nuclear weapons to force an adversary to perform some action or make some concessions. It is a type of extortion, related to brinkmanship.
Text sometimes exhibits case sensitivity; that is, words can differ in meaning, or can be distinguished in a computer search, based on differing use of capital and lowercase letters. Words usually mean the same when written with capital and with lowercase letters, but not always; for example:
Story of O (, ) is an erotic novel published in 1954 by French author Anne Desclos under the pen name Pauline Réage, and published in French by Jean-Jacques Pauvert.
Gábor Szegő () (January 20, 1895 – August 7, 1985) was a Hungarian mathematician. He was one of the foremost analysts of his generation and made fundamental contributions to the theory of Toeplitz matrices and orthogonal polynomials.
In dipterous insects, halteres (; singular halter or haltere) are minute dumbbell-shaped organs which have been modified from hindwings to provide a means of encoding body rotations during flight. Halteres are rapidly oscillated simultaneously with the wings, allowing them to experience forces resulting from body rotations.
)
MOPE may refer to:
In the foundations of mathematics, Russell's paradox (also known as Russell's antinomy), discovered by Bertrand Russell in 1901, showed that some attempted formalizations of the naïve set theory created by Georg Cantor led to a contradiction. The same paradox had been discovered a year before by Ernst Zermelo but he did not publish the idea, which remained known only to David Hilbert, Edmund Husserl, and other members of the University of Göttingen.
thumb|Simpson's paradox for quantitative data: a positive trend ( ,  ) appears for two separate groups, whereas a negative trend ( ) appears when the groups are combined.
A Green party is a formally organized political party based on the principles of green politics, such as social justice, environmentalism and nonviolence. Greens believe that these issues are inherently related to one another as a foundation for world peace.
The barber paradox is a puzzle derived from Russell's paradox. It was used by Bertrand Russell himself as an illustration of the paradox, though he attributes it to an unnamed person who suggested it to him.
The 25th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2500 BC to 2401 BC.
Indigo children, according to a pseudoscientific New Age concept, are children who are believed to possess special, unusual, and sometimes supernatural traits or abilities. They are sometimes also referred to as crystal children or star children.
The Skeptic's Dictionary is a collection of cross-referenced skeptical essays by Robert Todd Carroll, published on his website skepdic.com and in a printed book.
The Qibla al-Qudsiyya is the name given to a small sect of the Jews of Medina who converted to Islam in 622/623. When the qibla (direction of prayer for Muslims) was changed from Jerusalem (known in Arabic as al-Quds) to Mecca, these Jews protested and finally declined the change.
Violence is defined by the World Health Organization as &quot;the intentional use of physical force or power, threatened or actual, against oneself, another person, or against a group or community, which either results in or has a high likelihood of resulting in injury, death, psychological harm, maldevelopment, or deprivation&quot;, although the group acknowledges that the inclusion of &quot;the use of power&quot; in its definition expands on the conventional understanding of the word.Krug et al.
Major-General Iona Timofeevich Nikitchenko (Russian: Иона  Тимофеевич Никитченко) (June 28, 1895, Don Voisko Oblast, Russian Empire – April 22, 1967, Moscow, Russian SFSR) was a judge of the Supreme Court of the Soviet Union.
Range encoding is an entropy coding method defined by G. Nigel N.
The 3D ACIS Modeler (ACIS) is a geometric modeling kernel developed by Spatial Corporation (formerly Spatial Technology), part of Dassault Systemes. ACIS is used by many software developers in industries such as computer-aided design (CAD), computer-aided manufacturing (CAM), computer-aided engineering (CAE), architecture, engineering and construction (AEC), coordinate-measuring machine (CMM), 3D animation, and shipbuilding.
right|thumb|ONdigital logo from 1998 until 2001
Robert Bylot was a 17th-century explorer who made four voyages to the Arctic.Farley Mowat, p.
Rafael E. Núñez is a professor of cognitive science at the University of California, San Diego and a proponent of embodied cognition.
}}
GLONASS (, ; ; transliteration ), or &quot;Global Navigation Satellite System&quot;, is a space-based satellite navigation system operating in the radionavigation-satellite service. It provides an alternative to GPS and is the second navigational system in operation with global coverage and of comparable precision.
==Events and trends==
Garrett County (gərɛt) is the westernmost county of the U.S.
(Latin)&quot;Courageously in every enterprise&quot;
Fish and chips is a hot dish of English origin consisting of fried battered fish and hot potato chips. It is a common take-away food and an early example of culinary fusion.
louse-borne typhus
A SQUID (for superconducting quantum interference device) is a very sensitive magnetometer used to measure extremely subtle magnetic fields, based on superconducting loops containing Josephson junctions.
In signal processing, white noise is a random signal having equal intensity at different frequencies, giving it a constant power spectral density.   The term is used, with this or similar meanings, in many scientific and technical disciplines, including physics, acoustic engineering, telecommunications, statistical forecasting, and many more.
Butter is a dairy product containing up to 80% butterfat (in commercial products) which is solid when chilled and at room temperature in some regions and liquid when warmed. It is made by churning fresh or fermented cream or milk to separate the butterfat from the buttermilk.
The Star Beast is a 1954 science fiction novel by Robert A. Heinlein about a high school senior who discovers that his extraterrestrial pet is more than it appears to be.
Tillage is the agricultural preparation of soil by mechanical [of various types, such as digging, stirring, and overturning. Examples of human-powered] tilling methods using [[hand tools include shovelling, picking, mattock work, hoeing, and raking.
300px|right|thumb|A threshing machine in operation
__NOTOC__
Pink noise or  noise is a signal or process with a frequency spectrum such that the power spectral density (energy or power per frequency interval) is inversely proportional to the frequency of the signal.  In pink noise, each octave (halving/doubling in frequency) carries an equal amount of noise energy.
35 mm film (millimeter) is the film gauge most commonly used for motion pictures and chemical still photography (see 135 film). The name of the gauge refers to the width of the photographic film, which consists of strips 34.
Prince of Wales () was a title granted to princes born in Wales from the 12th century onwards; the term replaced the use of the word king. One of the last Welsh princes, Llywelyn ap Gruffudd, was killed in battle in 1282 by Edward I, King of England, whose son Edward, born in Caernarfon Castle, was invested as Prince of Wales: the first English person to claim the title.
Whitefish or white fish is a fisheries term referring to several species of demersal fish with fins, particularly Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua), Caspian kutum (Rutilus kutum), whiting (Merluccius bilinearis), and haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus), but also hake (Urophycis), pollock (Pollachius), or others. Whitefish (Coregonidae) is also the name of several species of Atlantic freshwater fish, so the use of the two-word term 'white fish' is less misleading.
}}
Las Tunas}}
70 mm film (or 65 mm film) is a wide high-resolution film gauge for still and motion picture photography, with higher resolution than the standard 35 mm motion picture film format. As used in cameras, the film is  wide.
}}
Sowing is the process of planting seeds. An area or object that has had seeds planted in it will be described as being sowed.
16 mm film is a historically popular and economical gauge of film. 16 mm refers to the width of the film; other common film gauges include 8 and 35 mm.
8 mm film is a motion picture film format in which the film strip is eight millimeters wide. It exists in two main versions — the original standard 8 mm film, also known as regular 8 mm or Double 8 mm, and Super 8.
Super 8mm film is a motion picture film format released in 1965 by Eastman Kodak as an improvement over the older &quot;Double&quot; or &quot;Regular&quot; 8 mm home movie format.
Refrigeration is a process of removing heat from a low-temperature reservoir and transferring it to a high-temperature reservoir. The work of heat transfer is traditionally driven by mechanical means, but can also be driven by heat, magnetism, electricity, laser, or other means.
&quot;Love, Sex And Power In Affairs Of State And Heart&quot;, Canberra Times, July 29, 2006.Great Catherine: The Life of Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia by Carolly Erickson.
or
Telemetry is an automated communications process by which measurements and other data are collected at remote or inaccessible points and transmitted to receiving equipment for monitoring. The word is derived from Greek roots: tele = remote, and metron = measure.
The Corinthian order is the last developed of the three principal classical orders of ancient Greek and Roman architecture. The other two are the Doric order which was the earliest, followed by the Ionic order.
Nadsat is a fictional register or argot used by the teenagers in Anthony Burgess's novel A Clockwork Orange. In addition to being a novelist, Burgess was a linguistAnthony Burgess, Language Made Plain and A Mouthful of Air.
Atbash (; also transliterated Atbaš) is a monoalphabetic substitution cipher originally used to encode the Hebrew alphabet. It can be modified for use with any known writing system with a standard collating order.
Encaustic may refer to:
Encaustic painting, also known as hot wax painting, involves using heated beeswax to which colored pigments are added. The liquid or paste is then applied to a surface—usually prepared wood, though canvas and other materials are often used.
thumb|300px|[[Andy Warhol, Campbell's Tomato Juice Box, 1964, Synthetic polymer paint and silkscreen ink on wood, , Museum of Modern Art, New York City]]
Mother's Day is a celebration honouring the mother of the family, as well as motherhood, maternal bonds, and the influence of mothers in society. It is celebrated on various days in many parts of the world, most commonly in the months of March or May.
*
Father's Day is a celebration honoring fathers and celebrating fatherhood, paternal bonds, and the influence of fathers in society. In Catholic Europe, it has been celebrated on March 19 (St.
Lexington, Kentucky, United States
Xerxes}}
Xerxes is a male name. It is the Greek version of the Old Persian name Xšaya-ṛšā, which is today known in Modern Persian as Khashayar.
Jassy may refer to:
In Greek mythology, Menelaus (; , Menelaos, from μένος &quot;vigor, rage, power&quot; and λαός &quot;people,&quot; &quot;wrath of the people&quot;) was a king of Mycenaean (pre-Dorian) Sparta, the husband of Helen of Troy, and a central figure in the Trojan War. He was the son of Atreus and Aerope, brother of Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and, according to the Iliad, leader of the Spartan contingent of the Greek army during the War.
Menelaus of Alexandria (; , Menelaos ho Alexandreus; c. 70 – 140 CE) was a GreekEncyclopædia Britannica &quot;Greek mathematician and astronomer who first conceived and defined a spherical triangle (a triangle formed by three arcs of great circles on the surface of a sphere).
Treaty of Paris can refer to one of many treaties signed in Paris, France:
Flounders are a group of flatfish species. They are demersal fish found at the bottom of oceans around the world; some species will also enter estuaries.
Globalization (or globalisation; see spelling differences) is the increasing interaction of people through the growth of the international flow of money, ideas and culture.  It involves goods and services, and the economic resources of capital, technology and data.
Chowder is a type of soup or stew often prepared with milk or cream and thickened with broken crackers, crushed ship biscuit, or a roux. Variations of chowder can be seafood or vegetable.
Portable soup was a kind of dehydrated food used in the 18th and 19th centuries. It was a precursor of the later meat extract and bouillon cubes, and of industrially dehydrated food.
}}
Herring soup is a fish soup consisting of a thick mix of water, barley-meal and red herring.1881 Household Cyclopedia
A flat tax (short for flat tax rate) is a tax system with a constant marginal rate, usually applied to individual or corporate income. A true flat tax would be a proportional tax, but implementations are often progressive and sometimes regressive depending on deductions and exemptions in the tax base.
Stone Soup is an old folk story in which hungry strangers convince the people of a town to each share a small amount of their food in order to make a meal that everyone enjoys. In varying traditions, the stone has been replaced with other common inedible objects, and therefore the fable is also known as axe soup, button soup, nail soup, and wood soup.
}}
Arthur Treacher's Fish and Chips is a fast food seafood restaurant chain. At the peak of its popularity in the late 1970s, it had about 800 stores.
Sashimi (; , ) is a Japanese delicacy consisting of very fresh raw meat or fish sliced into thin pieces.
Tarfu or TARFU may refer to:
Diatoms &quot;cut in half&quot; (= dichó-tom-os) —  &quot;through&quot; or &quot;apart&quot; and the root of  &quot;I cut&quot;.  are a major group of algae, and are among the most common types of phytoplankton.
thumb|Flag of East Anglia
[cable.JPG|thumb|270px|Cross-sectional view of a coaxial cable]
Jan van Eyck () (before c. 1390 – 9 July 1441) was a Flemish/Netherlandish painter active in Bruges.
Incubus () is a 1966 black-and-white American horror film filmed entirely in the constructed language Esperanto. It was directed by Leslie Stevens, creator of The Outer Limits, and stars William Shatner, shortly before he would begin his work on Star Trek.
June 1727 – 25 October 1760
}}
)
A , , or  was a covert agent or mercenary in feudal Japan. The functions of the ninja included espionage, sabotage, infiltration, assassination and guerrilla warfare.
The Rosary (pronunciation: /ˈrəʊz(ə)ri/, }}, in the sense of &quot;crown of roses&quot; or &quot;garland of roses&quot;), usually in the form of the Dominican Rosary, is a form of prayer used especially in the Catholic Church named for the string of knots or beads used to count the component prayers. When used of the form of prayer, the word is usually capitalized (&quot;the Rosary&quot;), as is customary for other names of prayers, such as &quot;the Lord's Prayer&quot;, &quot;the Hail Mary&quot;, &quot;the Magnificat&quot;.
Ionia (Ancient Greek: Ἰωνία or Ἰωνίη) is an ancient region of central coastal Anatolia in present-day Turkey, the region nearest İzmir, which was historically Smyrna. It consisted of the northernmost territories of the Ionian League of Greek  settlements.
The Passover Seder  (  'order, arrangement';  seyder) is a Jewish ritual feast that marks the beginning of the Jewish holiday of Passover. It is conducted throughout the world on the evening of the 15th day of Nisan in the Hebrew calendar (which falls in late March or in April of the Gregorian calendar).
Nisan (or Nissan; , Standard Nisan Tiberian Nîsān) on the Assyrian calendar is the first month, and on the Hebrew calendar is the first month of the ecclesiastical year and the seventh month (eighth, in leap year) of the civil year. The name of the month is of Assyrian-Babylonian origin; in the Torah it is called the month of the Aviv.
Hubert van Eyck (also Huybrecht van Eyck) (c. 1385–90 – 18 September 1426) was an Early Netherlandish painter and older brother of Jan van Eyck, as well as Lambert and Margareta, also painters.
Translation: &quot;The eighth [day] of Assembly&quot;
Magenta () is a color that is variously defined as purplish-red,Webster's New World Dictionary of the American Language (1964) reddish-purple, purplish-pink, or mauvish-crimson.definition of magenta in Oxford dictionary (American English) (US)  On computer screens, it is made by mixing equal amounts of blue and red.
YMCK is a Japanese chiptune band, composed of Midori Kurihara (vocals), Takeshi Yokemura (music, lyrics, arrangement), and Tomoyuki Nakamura (composition, music video).
Executive producer (EP) is a position in the making of a commercial entertainment product. Depending on the medium, the executive producer may be concerned with management accounting or with associated legal issues (like copyrights or royalties).
A crayon (or wax pastel) is a stick of colored wax, charcoal, chalk or other material used for writing or drawing. A crayon made of pigment with a dry binder is a pastel; when made of oiled chalk it is called an oil pastel.
, as Thames Ironworks, as West Ham United
The substantia nigra is a basal ganglia structure located in the midbrain that plays an important role in reward and movement. Substantia nigra is Latin for &quot;black substance&quot;, reflecting the fact that parts of the substantia nigra appear darker than neighboring areas due to high levels of neuromelanin in dopaminergic neurons.
976963), Nikephoros II Phokas (963969) and John I Tzimiskes (969976)}}10 January 97615 December 1025
Inspector Jacques Clouseau () is a fictional character in Blake Edwards' farcical The Pink Panther series. He is portrayed by Peter Sellers in the original series, and also by Alan Arkin in the 1968 film Inspector Clouseau and an uncredited Roger Moore in the 1983 film Curse of the Pink Panther.
An assassination market is a prediction market where any party can place a bet (using anonymous electronic money and pseudonymous remailers) on the date of death of a given individual, and collect a payoff if they &quot;guess&quot; the date accurately. This would incentivise assassination of individuals because the assassin, knowing when the action would take place, could profit by making an accurate bet on the time of the subject's death.
Fun is the enjoyment of pleasure, particularly in leisure activities. Fun is an experience — often unexpected, informal, generally not cerebral and generally purposeless.
}}
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously is a sentence composed by Noam Chomsky in his 1957 book Syntactic Structures as an example of a sentence that is grammatically correct, but semantically nonsensical. The sentence was originally used in his 1955 thesis &quot;Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory&quot; and in his 1956 paper &quot;Three Models for the Description of Language&quot;.
The philosophy of mathematics is the branch of philosophy that studies the assumptions, foundations, and implications of mathematics, and purports to provide a viewpoint of the nature and methodology of mathematics and to understand the place of mathematics in people's lives. The logical and structural nature of mathematics itself makes this study both broad and unique among its philosophical counterparts.
Assassins is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by John Weidman, based on an idea by Charles Gilbert, Jr. It uses the premise of a murderous carnival game to produce a revue-style portrayal of men and women who attempted (successfully or not) to assassinate Presidents of the United States.
}}
Scotch broth is a filling soup, originating in Scotland but now obtainable worldwide. The principal ingredients are usually barley, stewing or braising cuts of lamb, mutton or  beef, root vegetables (such as carrots, swedes, or sometimes turnips), and dried pulses (most often split peas and red lentils).
Corn soup is a soup made of corn (typically sweetcorn). It was normally made in corn-producing areas of the world, but is now widespread because of greater corn distribution.
Clam soup is a soup prepared using clams as a primary ingredient. Clam soup can be prepared as a thin, broth- or cream/milk-based soup and as a thicker, chowder-style soup.
Chicken soup is a soup made from chicken, simmered in water, usually with various other ingredients. The classic chicken soup consists of a clear chicken broth, often with pieces of chicken or vegetables; common additions are pasta, dumplings, or grains such as rice and barley.
EPC may refer to:
Image compression is a type of data compression applied to digital images, to reduce their cost for storage or transmission. Algorithms may take advantage of visual perception and the statistical properties of image data to provide superior results compared with generic compression methods.
Crop rotation is the practice of growing a series of dissimilar or different types of crops in the same area in sequenced seasons. It is done so that the soil of farms is not used for only one set of nutrients.
Drawn butter is melted butter,Oxford English Dictionary, 1st edition, 1897, s.v.
Fish sauce is a condiment made from fermented fish and salt. It is used as a staple ingredient in various cuisines in Southeast and East Asia, particularly Burmese, Cambodian, Filipino, Thai, Lao and Vietnamese cuisines.
Apple sauce or applesauce is a sauce made of apples. It can be made with peeled or unpeeled apples and a variety of spices (commonly cinnamon and allspice).
The Maryland Toleration Act, also known as the Act Concerning Religion, was a law mandating religious tolerance for Trinitarian Christians. It was passed on April 21, 1649, by the assembly of the Maryland colony, in St.
Child Soldiers International, Our strategy|website=www.child-soldiers.
TIDES is an ambitious technology development effort, funded by DARPA. It stands for Translingual Information Detection, Extraction and Summarization.
}}
The Vandals were an East Germanic tribe, or group of tribes, who were first documented in what is now southern Poland, but later moved around Europe establishing kingdoms in Spain and later North Africa in the 5th century.
Baroque chess is a chess variant invented in 1962 by Robert Abbott. In 1963, at the suggestion of his publisher, he changed the name to Ultima, by which name it is also known.
The Napoleonic Code (;  officially Code civil des Français, referred to as (le) Code civil) is the French civil code established under Napoléon I in 1804.
}}
(as Helsinki Watch)
Non-governmental organizations, nongovernmentalUS dictionaries record only the unhyphenated spelling, and this also recorded by some UK dictionaries, e.g.
The British royal family comprises the monarch of the United Kingdom and her close relations. There is no strict legal or formal definition of who is or is not a member of the British royal family, and apart from Queen Elizabeth II herself, different lists will include different people.
}}
, p. 242.
Frumenty (sometimes frumentee, furmity, fromity, or fermenty) was a popular dish in Western European medieval cuisine. It was made primarily from boiled, cracked wheat—hence its name, which derives from the Latin word frumentum, &quot;grain&quot;.
An L-system or Lindenmayer system is a parallel rewriting system and a type of formal grammar. An L-system consists of an alphabet of symbols that can be used to make strings, a collection of production rules that expand each symbol into some larger string of symbols, an initial &quot;axiom&quot; string from which to begin construction, and a mechanism for translating the generated strings into geometric structures.
Bread pudding is a bread-based dessert popular in many countries' cuisines, including Argentina, Belgium, Brazil,  Canada, Colombia, Cuba, France, Germany, Ireland, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, Slovakia, the Philippines, Puerto Rico, India (Double ka Meetha), the United Kingdom, and the United States. In other languages, its name is a translation of &quot;bread pudding&quot; or even just &quot;pudding&quot;, for example &quot;pudín&quot; or &quot;budín&quot; in Spanish; also in Spanish another name is &quot;migas&quot; (crumbs).
Batavia was the name used by the Roman Empire for the land of the Batavians, a Germanic tribe. It was described as a large island between rivers in the Rhine-Meuse delta.
The oat (Avena sativa), sometimes called the common oat, is a species of cereal grain grown for its seed, which is known by the same name (usually in the plural, unlike other cereals and pseudocereals). While oats are suitable for human consumption as oatmeal and rolled oats, one of the most common uses is as livestock feed.
Rye (Secale cereale) is a grass grown extensively as a grain, a cover crop and a forage crop. It is a member of the wheat tribe (Triticeae) and is closely related to barley (genus Hordeum) and wheat (Triticum).
Tare or Tares may refer to:
The turnip or white turnip (Brassica rapa subsp. rapa) is a root vegetable commonly grown in temperate climates worldwide for its white, bulbous taproot.
Humulus, hop, is a small genus of flowering plants in the family Cannabaceae. The hop is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere.
Hay is grass, legumes, or other herbaceous plants that have been cut, dried, and stored for use as animal fodder, particularly for grazing animals such as cattle, horses, goats, and sheep. Hay is also fed to smaller animals such as rabbits and guinea pigs.
thumb|Straw or hay briquettes are a biofuel substitute to coal
A loom is a device used to weave cloth and tapestry. The basic purpose of any loom is to hold the warp threads under tension to facilitate the interweaving of the weft threads.
thumb|Deep inside a Sydney drain in [[New South Wales, Australia]]
Earth observation satellites are satellites specifically designed for Earth observation from orbit, similar to spy satellites but intended for non-military uses such as environmental monitoring, meteorology, map making etc.
Darius may refer to:
Lucius Sergius Catilina, known in English as Catiline (; 108–62 BC), was a Roman Senator of the 1st century BC best known for the second Catilinarian conspiracy, an attempt to overthrow the Roman Republic and, in particular, the power of the aristocratic Senate. He is also known for several acquittals in court, including one for the charge of adultery with a Vestal Virgin.
Julius Caesar (100–44 BC) was a Roman general and dictator.
Shovelware is derogatory computer jargon for software bundles noted more for the quantity of what is included than for the quality or usefulness.
Clark County is the name of twelve counties in the United States. Most, though not all, are named after two brothers: military hero George Rogers Clark in the Midwest, and explorer William Clark in the West.
}}
Mise-en-scène ( &quot;placing on stage&quot;) is an expression used to describe the design aspects of a theatre or film production, which essentially means &quot;visual theme&quot; or &quot;telling a story&quot;—both in visually artful ways through storyboarding, cinematography and stage design, and in poetically artful ways through direction. It is also commonly used to refer to multiple single scenes within the film to represent the film.
An automated teller machine, also known in the United States of America as an automatic teller machineCambridge Dictionary Automatic Teller Machine (ATM, American, British, Australian, Malaysian, South African, Singaporean, Indian, Maldivian, Hiberno, Philippines and Sri Lankan English), automated banking machine (ABM, Canadian EnglishAutomatic Bank Machine definition from a Canadian bank, Scotiabank.), cash point (British English), cashline, minibank, cash machine, tyme machine, cash dispenser, bankomat or bancomat, is an electronic telecommunications device that enables the customers of a financial institution to perform financial transactions, particularly cash withdrawal, without the need for a human cashier, clerk or bank teller.
An embedded system is a computer system with a dedicated function within a larger mechanical or electrical system, often with real-time computing constraints. It is embedded as part of a complete device often including hardware and mechanical parts.
The Young Ones may refer to:
A Turing tarpit (or Turing tar-pit) is any programming language or computer interface that allows for flexibility in function but is difficult to learn and use because it offers little or no support for common tasks. The phrase was coined in 1982 by Alan Perlis in the Epigrams on Programming:
Xena|Xeno (disambiguation)Xeno}}
Mao Zedong Thought (), or Maoism, is a political theory derived from the teachings of the Chinese political leader Mao Zedong (1893–1976). Its followers are known as Maoists.
Dow, or the acronym DOW, may refer to:
15 Wall Street, New York City, New York, U.S.
The World Council of Churches (WCC) is a worldwide inter-church organization founded in 1948. Its members today include the Assyrian Church of the East, the Oriental Orthodox Churches, most jurisdictions of the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Old Catholic Church, Anglican Communion, most mainline Protestant churches (such as the Lutheran, Mennonite, Methodist, Moravian and Reformed) and some evangelical Protestant churches (such as the Baptist and Pentecostal).
“grep was a private command of mine for quite a while before i made it public.” -Ken Thompson, By Benjamin Rualthanzauva, Published on Feb 5, 2014, Medium
The Four Cardinal Principles () were stated by Deng Xiaoping in 1979 and are the four issues for which debate was not allowed within the People's Republic of China.  These are:
A radio telescope is a specialized antenna and radio receiver used to receive radio waves from astronomical radio sources in the sky in radio astronomy. Radio telescopes are the main observing instrument used in radio astronomy, which studies the radio frequency portion of the electromagnetic spectrum emitted by astronomical objects, just as optical telescopes are the main observing instrument used in traditional optical astronomy which studies the light wave portion of the spectrum coming from astronomical objects.
}}
}}
The Pirates of Penzance; or, The Slave of Duty is a comic opera in two acts, with music by Arthur Sullivan and libretto by W. S.
1025Co-Emperor with Romanos II (962963), Nikephoros II Phokas (963969), John I Tzimiskes (969976) and Basil II (9621025)15 December 102511 November 1028
The history of Wales  begins with the arrival of human beings in the region thousands of years ago. Neanderthals lived in what is now Wales, or Cymru in Welsh, at least 230,000 years ago,Davies, J A History of Wales, pp.
. p.
Xylem is one of the two types of transport tissue in vascular plants, phloem being the other. The basic function of xylem is to transport water from roots to shoots and leaves, but it also transports some nutrients.
In mathematics, the Banach fixed-point theorem (also known as the contraction mapping theorem or contraction mapping principle) is an important tool in the theory of metric spaces; it guarantees the existence and uniqueness of fixed points of certain self-maps of metric spaces, and provides a constructive method to find those fixed points.  The theorem is named after Stefan Banach (1892–1945), and was first stated by him in 1922.
(, The Bat, sometimes called The Revenge of the Bat) is an operetta composed by Johann Strauss II to a German libretto by  and Richard Genée.
In information theory an  entropy encoding is a lossless data compression scheme that is independent of the specific characteristics of the medium.
–6 February 1685
Saracen was a term widely used among Christian writers in Europe during the Middle Ages. The term's meaning evolved during its history.
}}
}}
Electoral fusion is an arrangement where two or more political parties on a ballot list the same candidate, pooling the votes for that candidate. Distinct from the process of electoral alliances in that the political parties remain separately listed on the ballot, the practice of electoral fusion in jurisdictions where it exists allows minor parties to influence election results and policy by offering to endorse or nominate a major party's candidate.
Bodily harm is a legal term of art used in the definition of both statutory and common law offences in Australia, Canada, England and Wales and other common law jurisdictions. It is a synonym for injury or bodily injury and similar expressions, though it may be used with a precise and limited meaning in any given jurisdiction.
The Consumer Broadband and Digital Television Promotion Act (or CBDTPA) was a United States bill proposed in 2002107th Congress, 2nd session, S. 2048.
Duncan Campbell was a Scots nobleman who died on 18 July 1758 as a result of wounds received in an unsuccessful frontal attack against French forces at Fort Carillon (renamed Fort Ticonderoga when the British took the fort a year later).  The legend associated with Campbell is that a number of years prior—while still living in Scotland—Campbell gave shelter to a stranger who turned out to have killed Duncan's cousin.
}}
Arion (; . The islanders of Lesbos claimed him as their native son, but Arion found a patron in Periander, tyrant of Corinth.
T1, T01, T.1 or T-1 may refer to:
The E-carrier is a member of the series of carrier systems developed for digital transmission of many simultaneous telephone calls by time-division multiplexing. The European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) originally standardized the E-carrier system, which revised and improved the earlier American T-carrier technology, and this has now been adopted by the International Telecommunication Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T).
E1, E01, E.I or E-1 may refer to:
*
Goliath (; ; Arabic: جالوت  Ǧulyāt (Christian term), Ǧālūt (Qur'anic term)) of Gath (one of five city-states of the Philistines) is the Biblical warrior defeated by the young David in the Book of Samuel. Post-Classical Jewish traditions stressed his status as the representative of paganism, in contrast to David, the champion of the God of Israel.
In mathematics, Euler's identity cos x + i sin x}},Dunham, 1999, p. xxiv.
}}
The Mikado; or, The Town of Titipu is a comic opera in two acts, with music by Arthur Sullivan and libretto by W. S.
Prince Charles (born 1948) is the current heir-apparent to the British throne.
Sacred geometry ascribes symbolic and sacred meanings to certain geometric shapes and certain geometric proportions.dartmouth.
1940–46
}}
Terra Australis (Latin for South Land) is a hypothetical continent first posited in antiquity and which appeared on maps between the 15th and 18th centuries. The existence of Terra Australis was not based on any survey or direct observation, but rather on the idea that continental land in the Northern Hemisphere should be balanced by land in the south.
Early Eocene–Holocene
A fixed-wing aircraft is an aircraft, such as an airplane or aeroplane (See Spelling Differences), which is capable of flight using wings that generate lift caused by the vehicle's forward airspeed and the shape of the wings. Fixed-wing aircraft are distinct from rotary-wing aircraft, in which the wings form a rotor mounted on a spinning shaft, and ornithopters, in which the wings flap in similar manner to a bird.
Malagasy may refer to:
Fanorona () is a strategy board game for two players. The game is indigenous to Madagascar.
Human-powered transport is the transport of person(s) and/or goods using human muscle power. Like animal-powered transport, human-powered transport has existed since time immemorial in the form of walking, running and swimming.
Iolanthe; or, The Peer and the Peri () is a comic opera with music by Arthur Sullivan and libretto by W. S.
Daniel Bernoulli FRS (; ;Mangold, Max (1990) Duden — Das Aussprachewörterbuch. 3.
thumb|250px|Desert varnish on [[Desert Pavement|gibber, Central Australia ]]
Long Valley may refer to:
}
A surveillance aircraft is an aircraft used for surveillance—collecting information over time. They are operated by military forces and other government agencies in roles such as intelligence gathering, battlefield surveillance, airspace surveillance, observation (e.
Windsor may refer to:
Fertilisation or fertilization (see spelling differences), also known as generative fertilisation, conception, fecundation, syngamy and impregnation,http://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.
The Federalist (later known as The Federalist Papers) is a collection of 85 articles and essays written (under the pseudonym Publius) by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay promoting the ratification of the United States Constitution. Seventy-seven were published serially in the Independent Journal and the New York Packet between October 1787 and August 1788.
Cisco Systems is a computer networking company.
The term federalist describes several political beliefs around the world.  Also, it may refer to the concept of parties; its members or supporters called themselves Federalists.
Kinder Surprise, also known as a Kinder Egg or, in the original Italian, Kinder Sorpresa (sorpresa being Italian for &quot;surprise&quot;), is a candy manufactured by Italian company Ferrero. It was invented by William Salice (1933–2016) and is one of several candies sold under the Kinder Chocolate brand.
Boojum may refer to:
Fouquieria columnaris, the Boojum tree or cirio () is a tree in the ocotillo family, whose other members include the ocotillos. It is nearly endemic to the Baja California Peninsula (both the northern and southern states), with only a small population in the Sierra Bacha of Sonora, Mexico.
A spoon is a utensil consisting of a small shallow bowl, oval or round, at the end of a handle. A type of cutlery (sometimes called flatware in the United States), especially as part of a place setting, it is used primarily for serving.
}}
* John, Duke of Bedford
In mathematics, Catalan's constant , which occasionally appears in estimates in combinatorics, is defined by
Asymmetric warfare (or asymmetric engagement) is war between belligerents whose relative military power differs significantly, or whose strategy or tactics differ significantly. This is typically a war between a standing, professional army and an insurgency or resistance movement.
A mince pie is a sweet pie of British origin, filled with a mixture of dried fruits and spices called &quot;mincemeat&quot;, that is traditionally served during the Christmas season in the English-speaking world. Its ingredients are traceable to the 13th century, when returning European crusaders brought with them Middle Eastern recipes containing meats, fruits and spices.
La Caletta is a small town, a harbour and a tourist destination in Sardinia, Italy. Caletta means a small bay or little harbour.
During the early years of World War II, Japanese Americans were forcibly relocated from their homes in the Pacific Coast states because military leaders and public opinion combined to fan unproven fears of sabotage. As the war progressed, many of the young Nisei, Japanese immigrants' children who were born with American citizenship, volunteered or were drafted to serve in the United States military.
Babylonia was an ancient Akkadian-speaking state and cultural area based in central-southern Mesopotamia (present-day Iraq). A small Amorite-ruled state emerged in 1894 BC, which contained at this time the minor administrative town of Babylon.
Japanese relocation may refer to World War II events:
}}
is a Japanese language term used in countries in North America and South America to specify the Japanese people who were first to immigrate. Issei are born in Japan, their children born in the new country are referred to as Nisei (second generation), and their grandchildren are Sansei (third generation).
is a Japanese and American English termhttp://www.merriam-webster.
In mathematics, the Euler numbers are a sequence En of integers  defined by the Taylor series expansion
Otters are carnivorous mammals in the subfamily Lutrinae. The 13 extant otter species are all semiaquatic, aquatic or marine, with diets based on fish and invertebrates.
The Egyptian language was spoken in ancient Egypt and was a branch of the Afro-Asiatic languages. Its earliest known complete written sentence has been dated to about 2690 BCE, which makes it one of the oldest recorded languages known, along with Sumerian.
Coptic may refer to:
Nubian may refer to:
Greyhawk, also known as the World of Greyhawk, is a fictional world designed as a campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy roleplaying game. Although not the first campaign world developed for Dungeons &amp; Dragons—Dave Arneson's Blackmoor campaign predated it by over a year — the world of Greyhawk was the setting most closely identified with the development of the game from 1972 until 2008.
The Flanaess is the eastern part of the continent of Oerik, one of the four continents of the fictional world of Oerth in the World of Greyhawk campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy roleplaying game. The Flanaess has been the setting of dozens of adventures published between the 1970s and 2000s and continues to be the central focus of the campaign world.
}}
Forgotten Realms is a campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons (D&amp;D) fantasy role-playing game. Commonly referred to by players and game designers alike as &quot;The Realms&quot;, it was created by game designer Ed Greenwood around 1967 as a setting for his childhood stories.
Ravenloft is a campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons roleplaying game.  It is an alternate time-space existence known as a pocket dimension called the Demiplane of Dread, which consists of a collection of land pieces called domains brought together by a mysterious force known only as &quot;The Dark Powers&quot;.
Mystara is a campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy role playing game. It was the default setting for the &quot;Basic&quot; version of the game throughout the 1980s and 1990s.
Planescape is a campaign setting for the Dungeons &amp; Dragons fantasy role-playing game, originally designed by Zeb Cook. The Planescape setting was published in 1994.
Spelljammer is a campaign setting for the Advanced Dungeons &amp; Dragons (2nd edition) role-playing game, which features a fantastic (as opposed to scientific) outer space environment.
The drow (Williams, Skip. &quot;Sage Advice&quot; Dragon #142 (TSR, 1989) or )Mentzer, Frank.
and expanded  - end of the First Age
Time stretching is the process of changing the speed or duration of an audio signal without affecting its pitch.
Parallax scrolling, also known as &quot;Asymmetrical scrolling&quot;, is a technique in computer graphics and web design, where background images move by the camera slower than foreground images, creating an illusion of depth in a 2D scene and adding to the immersion. The technique grew out of the multiplane camera technique used in traditional animation since the 1930s.
2013 was designated as:
)
thumb|Cover of a 1921 libretto for Giordano's [[Andrea Chénier]]
Chroma key compositing, or chroma keying, is a visual effects / post-production technique for compositing (layering) two images or video streams together based on color hues (chroma range). The technique has been used heavily in many fields to remove a [from the subject of a photo or video – particularly the news]casting, [[motion picture and videogame industries.
Lock may refer to:
In the design of database management systems, the identity map pattern is a database access design pattern used to improve performance by providing a context-specific, in-memory cache to prevent duplicate retrieval of the same object data from the database.
A cepstrum () is the result of taking the inverse Fourier transform (IFT) of the logarithm of the estimated spectrum of a signal. It may be pronounced in the two ways given, the second having the advantage of avoiding confusion with 'kepstrum' which also exists (see below).
Lifter may refer to:
The Koch snowflake (also known as the Koch curve, Koch star, or Koch island) is a mathematical curve and one of the earliest fractal curves to have been described. It is based on the Koch curve, which appeared in a 1904 paper titled &quot;On a continuous curve without tangents, constructible from elementary geometry&quot; (original French title: Sur une courbe continue sans tangente, obtenue par une construction géométrique élémentaire) by the Swedish mathematician Helge von Koch.
Cunt  is a vulgar word for the vulva or vagina and is also used as a term of disparagement. Reflecting different national usages, cunt is described as &quot;an unpleasant or stupid person&quot; in the Compact Oxford English Dictionary, whereas Merriam-Webster states that it is a &quot;usually disparaging and obscene&quot; term for a woman or an &quot;offensive way to refer to a woman&quot; in the United States.
,
Castalia (; ), in Greek mythology, was a nymph whom Apollo transformed into a fountain at Delphi, at the base of Mount Parnassos, or at Mount Helicon. Castalia could inspire the genius of poetry to those who drank her waters or listened to their quiet sound; the sacred water was also used to clean the Delphian temples.
thumb|Closeup image of a cactus flower and its stamens
,genitive
In telecommunications, a transmission system is a system that transmits a signal from one place to another. The signal can be an electrical, optical or radio signal.
Echion (), also known as Aetion, was a celebrated Greek painter spoken of by Lucian,Lucian, De Merced. Cond.
Justinian the Great (483–565) was Byzantine Emperor from 527 to 565 noted for his codification of Law.
Czech literature is the literature written in the Czech language.
Marcus Licinius Crassus (;M·LICINIVS·P·F·P·N·CRASSVS In English: &quot;Marcus Licinius Crassus, son of Publius, grandson of Publius&quot; c. 115–53 BC) was a Roman general and politician who played a key role in the transformation of the Roman Republic into the Roman Empire.
A buffer solution (more precisely, pH buffer or hydrogen ion buffer) is an aqueous solution consisting of a mixture of a weak acid and its conjugate base, or vice versa. Its pH changes very little when a small amount of strong acid or base is added to it.
A colocation centre (also spelled co-location, or colo) or &quot;carrier hotel&quot;, is a type of data centre where equipment, space, and bandwidth are available for rental to retail customers.  Colocation facilities provide space, power, cooling, and physical security for the server, storage, and networking equipment of other firms—and connect them to a variety of telecommunications and network service providers—with a minimum of cost and complexity.
A telephone company, also known as a telco, telephone service provider,Operability: Keeping Your Telephone Number When You Change Service Provider. FCC.
The Elfstedentocht (;  West Frisian: Alvestêdetocht , English: Eleven cities tour) is a skating tour, almost  long, which is held both as a speed skating competition (with 300 contestants) and a leisure tour (with 16,000 skaters). It is held in the province of Friesland in the north of the Netherlands, leading past all eleven historical cities of the province.
The Arrhenius equation is a formula for the temperature dependence of reaction rates. The equation was proposed by Svante Arrhenius in 1889, based on the work of Dutch chemist Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff who had noted in 1884 that Van 't Hoff's equation for the temperature dependence of equilibrium constants suggests such a formula for the rates of both forward and reverse reactions.
In computer networking, peering is a voluntary interconnection of administratively separate Internet networks for the purpose of exchanging traffic between the users of each network. The pure definition of peering is settlement-free, &quot;bill-and-keep,&quot; or &quot;sender keeps all,&quot; meaning that neither party pays the other in association with the exchange of traffic; instead, each derives and retains revenue from its own customers.
The Free World is a term for the non-communist countries of the world that originated in the Cold War–era. The concept included countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Canada, West Germany, Australia, New Zealand and countries belonging to organizations such as the European Union and NATO.
Metric time is the measure of time interval using the metric system, which defines the second as the base unit of time, and multiple and submultiple units formed with metric prefixes, such as kiloseconds and milliseconds. It does not define the time of day, as this is defined by various time scales, which may be based upon the metric definition of the second.
Commentarii de Bello Gallico (), also simply Bellum Gallicum (), is Julius Caesar's firsthand account of the Gallic Wars, written as a third-person narrative. In it Caesar describes the battles and intrigues that took place in the nine years he spent fighting the Germanic peoples and Celtic peoples in Gaul that opposed Roman conquest.
A package manager or package management system is a collection of software tools that automates the process of installing, upgrading, configuring, and removing computer programs for a computer's operating system in a consistent manner.
OBL may refer to:
Osama most commonly refers to Osama bin Laden (1957–2011), the founder of al-Qaeda.
}}
Cinna was a cognomen that distinguished a patrician branch of the gens Cornelia, particularly in the late Roman Republic.
The painter's algorithm, also known as a priority fill, is one of the simplest solutions to the visibility problem in 3D computer graphics. When projecting a 3D scene onto a 2D plane, it is necessary at some point to decide which polygons are visible, and which are hidden.
Scanline rendering (also scan line rendering and scan-line rendering) is an algorithm for visible surface determination, in 3D computer graphics,
Lucius Cornelius CinnaLatin: L·CORNELIVS·L·F·L·N·CINNA; English: &quot;Lucius Cornelius Cinna, son of Lucius, grandson of Lucius&quot;. (died 84 BC) was a four-time consul of the Roman Republic, serving four consecutive terms from 87 to 84 BC, and a member of the ancient Roman Cinna family of the Cornelii gens.
Long Valley, California may refer to:
Royal coat of arms
}}
Άγιος Ανίκητος ο Ιερομάρτυρας πάπας Ρώμης Ορθόδοξος Συναξαριστής (East)
Carrier-sense multiple access (CSMA) is a media access control (MAC) protocol in which a node verifies the absence of other traffic before transmitting on a shared transmission medium, such as an electrical bus or a band of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Lima is the capital of Peru.  It may also refer to:
This is a list of Welsh people (); an ethnic group and nation associated with Wales.
}}
Edmund II (died 30 November 1016), usually known as Edmund Ironside, was King of England from 23 April to 30 November 1016. He was the son of King Æthelred the Unready and his first wife, Ælfgifu of York.
Montpelier or Montpellier may refer to:
thumb|Under RFC 1149, a homing pigeon can carry Internet Protocol traffic.
Alphonse de Polignac (1826–1863) was a French mathematician. In 1849, the year he was admitted to Polytechnique, he made what's known as Polignac's conjecture:
Archibald Leach may refer to:
King of BabylonPharaoh of Egypt
Darius II (Old Persian: Dārayavahuš), was king of the Persian Empire from 423 BC to 404  or 405 BC.Brill's New Pauly, &quot;Darius&quot;.
Darius III (c. 380 – July 330 BC), originally named Artashata and called Codomannus by the Greeks, was the last king of the Achaemenid Empire of Persia from 336 BC to 330 BC.
The Easter Bunny (also called the Easter Rabbit or Easter Hare) is a  folkloric figure and symbol of Easter, depicted as a rabbit bringing Easter eggs. Originating among German Lutherans, the &quot;Easter Hare&quot; originally played the role of a judge, evaluating whether children were good or disobedient in behaviour at the start of the season of Eastertide.
}}
Baby boomers are the demographic cohort following the Silent Generation. There are no precise dates for when this cohort starts or ends.
Ivan Novikoff (August 26, 1899 – March 20, 2002) was a ballet master.
Airborne Warning and Control System, or AWACS, may refer to:
In mathematics, the logarithmic integral function or integral logarithm li(x) is a special function. It is relevant in problems of physics and has number theoretic significance, occurring in the prime number theorem as an estimate of the number of prime numbers less than a given value.
An incandescent light bulb, incandescent lamp or incandescent light globe is an electric light with a wire filament heated to such a high temperature that it glows with visible light (incandescence). The filament, heated by passing an electric current through it, is protected from oxidation with a glass or quartz bulb that is filled with inert gas or evacuated.
Vesta may refer to:
A minor-planet group is a population of minor planets that share broadly similar orbits. Members are generally unrelated to each other, unlike in an asteroid family, which often results from the break-up of a single asteroid.
CMO may refer to:
Viral license is a pejorative name for copyleft licenses, especially the GPL, that allows derivative works only when permissions are preserved in modified versions of the work. Copyleft licenses include several common open source and free content licenses, such as the GNU General Public License (GPL) and the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike license (CC-BY-SA).
, GA: 9
Louis (also Ludwig or Lewis) &quot;the German&quot; (c. 804-876), also known as Louis II, was the first king of East Francia.
In economics and sociology, the means of production are physical, non-human inputs used for the production of economic value, such as facilities, machinery, tools, infrastructural capital and natural capital.
Emperor Shōkō (称光天皇 Shōkō-tennō) (May 12, 1401 – August 30, 1428) was the 101st emperor of Japan, according to the traditional order of succession.Imperial Household Agency (Kunaichō):  称光天皇 (101); retrieved 2013-8-28.
Punitive damages, or exemplary damages, are damages intended to reform or deter the defendant and others from engaging in conduct similar to that which formed the basis of the lawsuit. Although the purpose of punitive damages is not to compensate the plaintiff, the plaintiff will receive all or some of the punitive damages award.
In computer networking and telecommunications, route flapping occurs when a router alternately advertises a destination network via one route then another (or as unavailable, and then available again) in quick sequence. A closely related term is interface flapping where an interface on a router has a hardware failure that will cause the router to announce it alternately as &quot;up&quot; and &quot;down&quot;.
}}
The group Survivors of the Valdez Oil Spill claims to represent the 40,000 or so
Misanthropy is the general hatred, dislike, distrust or contempt of the human species or human nature. A misanthrope or misanthropist is someone who holds such views or feelings.
Ruddigore; or, The Witch's Curse, originally called Ruddygore, is a comic opera in two acts, with music by Arthur Sullivan and libretto by W. S.
A Ponzi scheme (; also a Ponzi game) is a fraudulent investment operation where the operator generates returns for older investors through revenue paid by new investors, rather than from legitimate business activities or profit of financial trading. Operators of Ponzi schemes can be either individuals or corporations, and grab the attention of new investors by offering short-term returns that are either abnormally high or unusually consistent.
Karl Koch is the name of:
Orphée aux enfers, whose title translates from the French as Orpheus in the Underworld, is an opéra bouffe (a form of operetta), or opéra féerie in its revised version. Its score was composed by Jacques Offenbach to a French text written by Ludovic Halévy and later revised by Hector-Jonathan Crémieux.
Freeman Hagbard Celine, H.M.
Vesta () is the virgin goddess of the hearth, home, and family in Roman religion. She was rarely depicted in human form, and was often personified by the fire of her temple in the Forum Romanum.
(Q)
Year 964 (CMLXIV) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
In Greek mythology Europa (;  Eurṓpē) was the mother of King Minos of Crete, a woman with Phoenician origin of high lineage, and after whom the continent Europe was named. The story of her abduction by Zeus in the form of a white bull was a Cretan story; as classicist Károly Kerényi points out, &quot;most of the love-stories concerning Zeus originated from more ancient tales describing his marriages with goddesses. This can especially be said of the story of Europa&quot;.Kerenyi 1951, p. 108
Year 965 (CMLXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Alinda, Mars-crosser,NEO, PHA
thumb|[[Hermes, Io (as cow) and Argus, black-figure amphora, 540–530 BC, Staatliche Antikensammlungen (Inv. 585)]]
Psyche are a Canadian dark synthpop band, now based in Germany. They are centered on singer Darrin Huss, who has been the only constant member, with various line-ups including his brother Stephen Huss, later followed by David Kristian, Per-Anders Kurenbach, and Remi Szyszka, all recording albums with Darrin under the name Psyche.
()
right|thumb|Infancy of Zeus, by [[Jacob Jordaens, early 1630s (Louvre Museum)]]
Taxes and subsidies change the price of goods and, as a result, the quantity consumed.
Ida}}
300px|thumb|The [[asteroids of the inner Solar System and Jupiter: The donut-shaped asteroid belt is located between the orbits of Jupiter and Mars.
thumb|250px|Deadweight loss created by a binding [[price ceiling. The producer surplus always decreases, but the consumer surplus may or may not increase; however, the decrease in producer surplus must be greater than the increase, if any, in consumer surplus.
UNICOS is the name of a range of Unix-like operating system variants developed by Cray for its supercomputers. UNICOS is the successor of the Cray Operating System (COS).
The Navajo are a Native American people of the Southwestern United States.
A cognitive bias refers to the systematic pattern of deviation from norm or rationality in judgment, whereby inferences about other people and situations may be drawn in an illogical fashion. Individuals create their own &quot;subjective social reality&quot; from their perception of the input.
In geometry, topology, and related branches of mathematics, a closed set is a set whose complement is an open set. In a topological space, a closed set can be defined as a set which contains all its limit points.
In economics and social policy, infrastructure bias is the influence of the location and availability of pre-existing infrastructure, such as roads and telecommunications facilities, on social and economic development.
In mathematics, two things are called distinct if they are not equal. In physics two things are distinct if they cannot be mapped to each other.
–
The Master of Business Administration (MBA or M.B.
Hapi, sometimes transliterated as Hapy, is one of the Four sons of Horus in ancient Egyptian religion, depicted in funerary literature as protecting the throne of Osiris in the Underworld. Hapi was the son of Heru-ur and Isis or Serqet.
Movable type (US English; moveable type in British English) is the system and technology of printing and typography that uses movable components to reproduce the elements of a document (usually individual letters or punctuation) usually on the medium of paper.
Closure, clausure or Clojure may refer to:
thumb|right|225px||[[American burlesque dancer Lola Bel Aire performing a traditional striptease.]]
The dog paddle or doggy paddle is a simple swimming style.  It is characterized by the swimmer lying on their chest and moving their hands and legs alternately in a manner reminiscent of how dogs and other quadrupedal mammals swim.
Treading water or water treading is what a swimmer can do while in a vertical position to keep their head above the surface of the water, while not providing sufficient directional thrust to overcome inertia and propel the swimmer in any specific direction.
thumb|right|
The horizontal bar, also known as the high bar, is an apparatus used by male gymnasts in artistic gymnastics. It traditionally consists of a cylindrical metal (typically steel) bar that is rigidly held above and parallel to the floor by a system of cables and stiff vertical supports.
Perch is a common name for fish of the genus Perca, freshwater gamefish belonging to the family Percidae.  The perch, of which there are three species in different geographical areas, lend their name to a large order of vertebrates: the Perciformes, from the Greek perke, simply meaning perch, and the Latin forma meaning shape.
Trout is  the common name for a number of species of freshwater fish belonging to the genera Oncorhynchus, Salmo and Salvelinus, all of the  subfamily Salmoninae of the family Salmonidae.  The word trout is also used as part of the name of some non-salmonid fish such as Cynoscion nebulosus, the spotted seatrout or speckled trout.
Trolling is a method of fishing where one or more fishing lines, baited with lures or bait fish, are  drawn through the water. This may be behind a moving boat, or by slowly winding the line in when fishing from a static position, or even sweeping the line from side-to-side, e.
Mackerel is a common name applied to a number of different species of pelagic fish, mostly, but not exclusively, from the family Scombridae. They are found in both temperate and tropical seas, mostly living along the coast or offshore in the oceanic environment.
A fishing rod  is a long, flexible rod used to catch fish. At its simplest, a fishing rod is a simple stick or pole attached to a line ending in a hook (formerly known as an angle, hence the term angling).
thumb|right|250px|A spinning reel
thumb|right|Fishing line with hooks attached
Date or dates  may refer to:
Sinker may refer to:
Sunfish or sun-fish may refer to:
Bass ( ) is a name shared by many species of fish. The term encompasses both freshwater and marine species, all belonging to the large order Perciformes, or perch-like fishes.
Micropterus is a genus of freshwater fish in the sunfish family (family Centrarchidae) of order Perciformes.  The species of this genus are known as the black bass.
An object is a technical term in modern philosophy often used in contrast to the term subject. A subject is an observer and an object is a thing observed.
The term hake  refers to fish in either of:
Sea bass is a common fish name.  Many fish species of various families have been called sea bass.
The white bass, silver bass, or sand bass (Morone chrysops) is a freshwater fish of the temperate bass family Moronidae. It is the state fish of Oklahoma.
The white perch (Morone americana) is not a true perch but is, rather, a fish of the temperate bass family, Moronidae, notable as a food and game fish in eastern North America. In some locales it is referred to incorrectly as &quot;silver bass&quot;.
(as DJA)Dow Record Book Adds Another First. Philly.
The Council of Ephesus was a council of Christian bishops convened in Ephesus (near present-day Selçuk in Turkey) in AD 431 by the Roman Emperor Theodosius II.  This third ecumenical council, an effort to attain consensus in the church through an assembly representing all of Christendom,Richard Kieckhefer (1989).
Æthelred I (Old English: Æþelræd, sometimes rendered as Ethelred, &quot;noble counsel&quot;;  – 871) was King of Wessex from 865 to 871. He was the fourth son of King Æthelwulf of Wessex.
thumb|Fionn mac Cumhaill, illustration by [[Stephen Reid (artist)|Stephen Reid.]]
2012 was designated as:
Chess strategy is the aspect of chess playing concerned with evaluation of chess positions and setting of goals and long-term plans for future play. While evaluating a position strategically, a player must take into account such factors as the relative value of the pieces on the board, pawn structure, king safety, position of pieces, and control of key squares and groups of squares (e.
==Births==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
__NOTOC__
During William's lifetime, two calendars were in use in Europe: the Old Style Julian calendar in Britain and parts of Northern and Eastern Europe, and the New Style Gregorian calendar elsewhere, including William's birthplace in the Netherlands. At the time of William's birth, Gregorian dates were ten days ahead of Julian dates: thus William was born on 14 November 1650 by Gregorian reckoning, but on 4 November 1650 by Julian.
The Documentary Center is a part of The George Washington University in Washington, DC, United States, devoted to teaching documentary film production theory and techniques and to creating documentary films for national audiences. Inaugurated in 1991 as The Center for History in the Media, the Documentary Center is one of the few educational centers in the nation that focuses exclusively on the production of non-fiction filmmaking.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
870
Orchestration is the study or practice of writing music for an orchestra (or, more loosely, for any musical ensemble, such as a concert band) or of adapting music composed for another medium for an orchestra. Also called &quot;instrumentation&quot;, orchestration is the selection of different instruments to play the different parts (e.
Edgar I  (; 8 July 975), known as the Peaceful or the Peaceable, was King of England from 959 until his death. He was the younger son of Edmund I and Ælfgifu of Shaftesbury, and came to the throne as a teenager, following the death of his older brother Eadwig.
__NOTOC__
In Greek mythology, the Titans (Greek: , Titán, : , Titânes) and Titanesses (or Titanides; Greek: , Titanís, : , Titanídes) were members of the second generation of divine beings, descending from the primordial deities and preceding the Olympian deities. Based on Mount Othrys, the Titans most famously included the first twelve children of the primordial Gaia (Mother Earth) and Uranus (Father Sky).
Instrumentation is a collective term for measuring instruments used for indicating, measuring and recording physical quantities, and has its origins in the art and science of Scientific instrument-making.
}}  }}  }}
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
Amp or AMP may refer to:
Group Therapy}}
A convenience store is a small retail business that stocks a range of everyday items such as groceries, snack foods, confectionery, soft drinks, tobacco products, over-the-counter drugs, toiletries, newspapers, and magazines. In some jurisdictions, corner stores are licensed to sell alcohol, typically beer and wine.
(as Tote'm Stores)
In the area of modern algebra known as group theory, the Monster group M  (also known as the Fischer–Griess Monster, or the Friendly Giant) is the largest sporadic simple group, having order
thumb|Bungee jumping off the [[Victoria Falls Bridge in Zambia/Zimbabwe]]
}}
In Greek mythology, Atlas (; ) was a Titan condemned to hold up the sky for eternity after the Titanomachy. Although associated with  various places, he became commonly identified with the Atlas Mountains in  northwest Africa (modern-day Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia).
An atlas is a collection of maps; it is typically a bundle of maps of Earth or a region of Earth, but there are atlases of the other planets (and their satellites) in the Solar System. Furthermore, atlases of anatomy exist, mapping out organs of the human body or other organisms.
In anatomy, the atlas (C1) is the most superior (first) cervical vertebra of the spine.
In classical European architecture, an atlas (also known as an atlant, or atlante Hersey, George,  The Lost Meaning of Classical Architecture,  MIT Press, Cambridge, MA,  1998 p. 129   or atlantid; plural atlantes)Aru-Az , Michael Delahunt, ArtLex Art Dictionary , 1996–2008.
Taiwan Capitalization Weighted Stock Index (加權指數, abbr. TAIEX) is a stock market index for companies traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE).
In mathematics, particularly topology, one describes a manifold using an atlas. An atlas consists of individual charts that, roughly speaking, describe individual regions of the manifold.
Roc, ROC, or R.O.
A copycat suicide is defined as an emulation of another suicide that the person attempting suicide knows about either from local knowledge or due to accounts or depictions of the original suicide on television and in other media.
A chessboard is the type of checkerboard used in the board game chess, consisting of 64 squares (eight rows and eight columns). The squares are arranged in two alternating colors (light and dark).
The stratosphere () is the second major layer of Earth's atmosphere, just above the troposphere, and below the mesosphere. About 20% of the atmosphere's mass is contained in the stratosphere.
Pater Noster or &quot;Our Father&quot; is probably the best-known prayer in Christianity.
The mesosphere (; from Greek mesos &quot;middle&quot; and sphaira &quot;sphere&quot;) is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is directly above the stratosphere and directly below the mesopause. In the mesosphere, temperature decreases as the altitude increases.
thumb|80px|right|Earth atmosphere diagram showing the exosphere and other layers. The layers are to scale.
325px|thumb|Aten
The mesopause is the temperature minimum at the boundary between the mesosphere and the thermosphere atmospheric regions. Due to the lack of solar heating and very strong radiative cooling from carbon dioxide, the mesosphere is the coldest region on Earth with temperatures as low as -100 °C (-148 °F or 173 K).
==People==
The Apollo asteroids are a group of near-Earth asteroids named after 1862 Apollo, discovered by German astronomer Karl Reinmuth in the 1930s. They are Earth crossing asteroids that have an orbital semi-major axis greater than that of the Earth (&gt; 1 AU) but perihelion distances less than the Earth's aphelion distance (q &lt; 1.
An algal bloom is a rapid increase or accumulation in the population of algae in freshwater or marine water systems, and is recognized by the discoloration in the water from their pigments. Cyanobacteria were mistaken for algae in the past, so cyanobacterial blooms are sometimes also called algal blooms.
In optics, an aperture is a hole or an opening through which light travels.  More specifically, the aperture and focal length of an optical system determine the cone angle of a bundle of rays that come to a focus in the image plane.
An altimeter or an altitude meter is an instrument used to measure the altitude of an object above a fixed level. The measurement of altitude is called altimetry, which is related to the term bathymetry, the measurement of depth under water.
Ames Research Center (ARC), also known as NASA Ames, is a major NASA research center at Moffett Federal Airfield in California's Silicon Valley. It was founded as the second National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) laboratory.
An aquifer is an underground layer of water-bearing permeable rock, rock fractures or unconsolidated materials (gravel, sand, or silt) from which groundwater can be extracted using a water well. The study of water flow in aquifers and the characterization of aquifers is called hydrogeology.
Atmospheric pressure, sometimes also called barometric pressure, is the pressure within the atmosphere of Earth (or that of another planet). In most circumstances atmospheric pressure is closely approximated by the hydrostatic pressure caused by the weight of air above the measurement point.
}}
An atoll (, , , ,  or ),pronunciation in old video on youtube, Bikini Atoll video sometimes called a coral atoll, is a ring-shaped coral reef including a coral rim that encircles a lagoon partially or completely. There may be coral islands/cays on the rim.
right|350px|thumb|The azimuth is the angle formed between a reference direction (in this example north) and a line from the observer to a point of interest projected on the same plane as the reference direction orthogonal to the zenith
A barometer is a scientific instrument used in meteorology to measure atmospheric pressure. Pressure tendency can forecast short term changes in the weather.
}}
Biota may refer to:
&quot;All your base are belong to us&quot; is a popular Internet meme based on a broken English (&quot;Engrish&quot;) phrase found in the opening cutscene of the 1992 Mega Drive port of the 1989 arcade video game Zero Wing. The quote comes from the European release of the game, featuring poor English translations of the original Japanese version.
Boreal, meaning &quot;(far) northern&quot; in Latin and Greek, may refer to:
Northern may refer to the following:
}}
Calibration in measurement technology and metrology is the comparison of measurement values delivered by a device under test with those of a calibration standard of known accuracy. Such a standard could be another measurement device of known accuracy, a device generating the quantity to be measured such as a voltage, or a physical artefact, such as a metre ruler.
The carbon cycle is the biogeochemical cycle by which carbon is exchanged among the biosphere, pedosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere of the Earth. Carbon is the main component of biological compounds as well as a major component of many minerals such as limestone.
}}
==Events==
==Events and trends==
Cirrus (cloud classification symbol: Ci) is a genus of atmospheric cloud generally characterized by thin, wispy strands, giving the type its name from the Latin word cirrus, meaning a ringlet or curling lock of hair.  This cloud can form at any altitude between  and  above sea level.
Climate change is a change in the statistical distribution of weather patterns when that change lasts for an extended period of time (i.e.
Climate models use quantitative methods to simulate the interactions of the important drivers of climate, including atmosphere, oceans, land surface and ice. They are used for a variety of purposes from study of the dynamics of the climate system to projections of future climate.
== What is cloud albedo? ==
In meteorology, a cloud is an aerosol comprising a visible mass of minute liquid droplets, frozen crystals, or particles suspended in the atmosphere above the surface of a planetary body. The droplets and crystals may be made of water or various chemicals.
A planetary body or planetary object is any secondary body in the Solar System that is geologically differentiated or in hydrostatic equilibrium and thus has a planet-like geology: a planet, dwarf planet, or the larger moons and asteroids.
cloud Feadback is the coupling between cloudiness and surface air temperature where a surface air temperature change leads to a change in clouds, which could then amplify or diminish the initial temperature perturbation. Cloud feedbacks can affect the magnitude of internally generated climate variability or they can affect the magnitude of climate change resulting from external radiative forcings.
Cloud forcing (sometimes described as cloud radiative forcing or cloud radiative effect) is, in meteorology, the difference between the radiation budget components for average cloud conditions and cloud-free conditions.  Much of the interest in cloud forcing relates to its role as a feedback process in the present period of global warming.
.
Condensation is the change of the physical state of matter from gas phase into liquid phase, and is the reverse of evaporation. The word most often refers to the water cycle.
Contrails (; short for &quot;condensation trails&quot;) are line-shaped clouds  produced by aircraft engine exhaust, typically at aircraft cruise altitudes several miles above the Earth's surface. Contrails are composed primarily of water, in the form of ice crystals.
Convection is the heat transfer due to bulk movement of molecules within fluids such as gases and liquids, including molten rock (rheid). Convection takes place through advection, diffusion or both.
The cryosphere (from the Greek  kryos, &quot;cold&quot;, &quot;frost&quot; or &quot;ice&quot; and  sphaira, &quot;globe, ball&quot;σφαῖρα, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon, on Perseus) is those portions of Earth's surface where water is in solid form, including sea ice, lake ice, river ice, snow cover, glaciers, ice caps, ice sheets, and frozen ground (which includes permafrost). Thus, there is a wide overlap with the hydrosphere.
300px|thumb|right|Small cumulus humilis clouds that can have noticeable vertical development and clearly defined edges.
The haptophytes, classified either as the Haptophyta, Haptophytina or Prymnesiophyta (named for Prymnesium), are a clade of algae.
Configuration may refer to:
United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 (S/RES/242) was adopted unanimously by the UN Security Council on November 22, 1967, in the aftermath of the Six-Day War. It was adopted under Chapter VI of the UN Charter.
HorrorTeen dramaActionFantasy
The carrying capacity of a biological species in an environment is the maximum population size of the species that the environment can sustain indefinitely, given the food, habitat, water, and other necessities available in the environment.
Vardar Macedonia (, ) or Serbian Macedonia () was the name of a territory in the Kingdom of Serbia and Kingdom of Yugoslavia, roughly corresponding to today's Republic of Macedonia (northern part of geographical Macedonia). It usually refers to the part of the Macedonia region attributed to the Kingdom of Serbia by the Treaty of Bucharest (1913), alongside Old Serbia.
Daylight saving time (abbreviated DST), also sometimes erroneously referred to as daylight savings time, is the practice of advancing clocks during summer months so that evening daylight lasts longer, while sacrificing normal sunrise times. Typically, regions that use daylight saving time adjust clocks forward one hour close to the start of spring and adjust them backward in the autumn to standard time.
&quot;Let's roll&quot; is a colloquialism that has been used extensively as a command to move and start an activity, attack, mission or project.
Summertime may refer to:
An idiom (, &quot;special property&quot;, from , &quot;special feature, special phrasing, a peculiarity&quot;, f. , &quot;one's own&quot;) is a phrase or an expression that has a figurative, or sometimes literal, meaning.
The chubWorld Conservation Monitoring Centre 2010.  Squalius cephalus.
A low Earth orbit (LEO) is an orbit around Earth with an altitude between the Earth's surface and , with an orbital period of between about 84 and 127 minutes. Objects below approximately  will experience very rapid orbital decay and altitude loss.
The Appian Way (Latin and Italian: Via Appia) was one of the earliest and strategically most important Roman roads of the ancient republic. It connected Rome to Brindisi, in southeast Italy.
The American pickerels are two subspecies of Esox americanus, a species of freshwater fish in the pike family (family Esocidae) of order Esociformes: the redfin pickerel, E. americanus americanus Gmelin, 1789, and the grass pickerel, E.
Redfish is a common name for several species of fish. It is most commonly applied to certain deep-sea rockfish in the genus Sebastes, or the reef dwelling snappers in the genus Lutjanus.
Porgy is a novel written by the American author DuBose Heyward and published by the George H. Doran Company in 1925.
The weakfish, Cynoscion regalis, is a marine fish of the drum family Sciaenidae.
The muskellunge (Esox masquinongy), also known as muskelunge, muscallonge, milliganong, or maskinonge (and often abbreviated &quot;muskie&quot; or &quot;musky&quot;), is a species of large, relatively uncommon freshwater fish native to North America. The muskellunge is the largest member of the pike family, Esocidae.
Pollock (alternatively and more commonly among anglers spelled pollack; pronounced ) is the common name used for either of the two species of North Atlantic marine fish in the genus Pollachius. Pollachius pollachius is referred to as pollock in both North America and the United Kingdom, while Pollachius virens today is usually known as coley in the British Isles (derived from the older name coalfish).
Kingfish may refer to:
Archosargus probatocephalus, the sheepshead, is a marine fish that grows to , but commonly reaches . It is deep and compressed in body shape, with five or six dark bars on the side of the body over a gray background.
Blackfish is a common name of fish.
-
==Births==
A waveform is the shape and form of a signal such as a wave moving in a physical medium or an abstract representation.
Manchuria () was first used in the 17th century by Chinese people, given to a large geographic region in Northeast Asia. Depending on the context, Manchuria can either refer to a region that falls entirely within the People's Republic of China,&quot;Manchuria&quot;.
__NOTOC__
Unconscious may refer to:
In mathematics, a simple group is a nontrivial group whose only normal subgroups are the trivial group and the group itself.  A group that is not simple can be broken into two smaller groups, a normal subgroup and the quotient group, and the process can be repeated.
Leonora of Castile or Eleanor of Castile may refer to:
A suspension bridge is a type of bridge in which the deck (the load-bearing portion) is hung below suspension cables on vertical suspenders. The first modern examples of this type of bridge were built in the early 19th century.
The Doomsday Clock is a symbol which represents the likelihood of a man-made global catastrophe. Maintained since 1947 by the members of the  Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists Science and Security Board, the Clock represents an analogy for the threat of global nuclear war.
}}
}}
}}
Rook or rooks may refer to:
thumb|upright=1.20|Original [[Staunton chess set|Staunton chess pieces, left to right: pawn, rook, knight, bishop, queen, and king]]
}}
(aged 62–63)
thumb|upright=0.9|The Free Trade Area of the Americas logo
}}
thumb|300px|Yarkovsky effect:1. Radiation from asteroid's surface 2.
Llywelyn ap Gruffudd (c. 1223 – 11 December 1282), sometimes written as Llywelyn ap Gruffydd, also known as Llywelyn the Last, or, in Welsh, Llywelyn Ein Llyw Olaf (), was Prince of Wales (Latin: Princeps Wallie; Welsh: Tywysog Cymru) from 1258 until his death at Cilmeri in 1282.
A bomb is an explosive weapon that uses the exothermic reaction of an explosive material to provide an extremely sudden and violent release of energy. Detonations inflict damage principally through ground- and atmosphere-transmitted mechanical stress, the impact and penetration of pressure-driven projectiles, pressure damage, and explosion-generated effects.
Atil (; cf.  A-de Shui), literally meaning &quot;Big River&quot;, was the capital of Khazaria from the middle of the 8th century until the end of the 10th century.
Paella ( or , ; English approximation: }}}} or }}) is a Valencian rice dish. Paella has ancient roots, but its modern form originated in the mid-19th century in the area around Albufera lagoon on the east coast of Spain, adjacent to the city of Valencia.
Khazaran was a city in the Khazar kingdom, located on the eastern bank of the lower Volga River. It was connected to Atil by a pontoon bridge.
The Falles (, sing. Falla; ) is a traditional celebration held in commemoration of Saint Joseph in the city of Valencia, Spain.
thumb|400px|Map showing the major Varangian trade routes of the 8th–11th centuries, with Balanjar along the [[Volga trade route (in red). ]]
Murphy's law is an adage or epigram that is typically stated as: &quot;Anything that can go wrong will go wrong&quot;.
International Sign (IS) is a contact variety of sign language used in a variety of different contexts, particularly at international meetings such as the World Federation of the Deaf (WFD) congress, events such as the Deaflympics, in video clips produced by Deaf people and watched by other Deaf people from around the world, and informally when travelling and socialising. It is a sign-language pidgin.
(de jure)| (de facto)|}}
Liane Gabora is a professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia - Okanagan. She is best known for her theory of the &quot;Origin of the modern mind through conceptual closure.
thumb|375px|The Standard Model of [[elementary particles (more schematic depiction), with the three generations of matter, gauge bosons in the fourth column, and the Higgs boson in the fifth]]
Castling is a move in the game of chess involving a player's king and either of the player's original rooks. It is the only move in chess in which a player moves two pieces in the same move, and it is the only move aside from the knight's move where a piece can be said to &quot;jump over&quot; another.
Value or values may refer to:
A hippie (or hippy) is a member of a counterculture, originally a youth movement that started in the United States and the United Kingdom during the mid-1960s and spread to other countries around the world. The word hippie came from hipster and was initially used to describe beatniks who had moved into New York City's Greenwich Village and San Francisco's Haight-Ashbury district.
Reproducibility is the ability of an entire analysis of an experiment or study to be duplicated, either by the same researcher or by someone else working independently, whereas reproducing an experiment is called replicating it. Reproducibility and replicability together are among the main principles of the scientific method.
A chess clock consists of two adjacent clocks with buttons to stop one clock while starting the other, so that the two clocks never run simultaneously. Chess clocks are used in chess and other two-player games where the players move in turn.
AérospatialeGunston, p. 13 (), sometimes styled Aerospatiale, was a French state-owned aerospace manufacturer that built both civilian and military aircraft, rockets and satellites.
Espresso (, ) is coffee brewed by forcing a small amount of nearly boiling water under pressure through finely ground coffee beans. Espresso is generally thicker than coffee brewed by other methods, has a higher concentration of suspended and dissolved solids, and has crema on top (a foam with a creamy consistency).
Perkele () means devil in modern Finnish and is used as a rude profanity. Some researchers consider Perkele an original name of Ukko, the chief god of the Finnish pagan pantheon, but this view is not shared by all researchers.
Breguet may refer to:
Marconi Electronic Systems (MES), or GEC-Marconi as it was until 1998, was the defence arm of The General Electric Company (GEC). It was demerged from GEC and acquired by British Aerospace (BAe) on 30 November 1999 to form BAE Systems.
AviaBellanca Aircraft Corporation is an American aircraft design and manufacturing company. Prior to 1983 it was known as the Bellanca Aircraft Company.
Sanctae Mariae in Palmis
A toxic heavy metal is any relatively dense metal or metalloid that is noted for its potential toxicity, especially in environmental contexts.Srivastava &amp; Goyal 2010, p.
Aermacchi was an Italian aircraft manufacturer. Formerly known as Aeronautica Macchi, the company was founded in 1912 by Giulio Macchi at Varese in north-western Lombardy as Nieuport-Macchi, to build Nieuport monoplanes under licence for the Italian military.
Blackburn Aircraft Limited was a British aircraft manufacturer that concentrated mainly on naval and maritime aircraft during the first part of the 20th century.
USS Enterprise-D7, GEN)}}
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Cosmic rays are high-energy radiation, mainly originating outside the Solar System. Upon impact with the Earth's atmosphere, cosmic rays can produce showers of secondary particles that sometimes reach the surface.
In chess, a fork is a tactic whereby a single piece makes two or more direct attacks simultaneously. Most commonly two pieces are threatened, which is also sometimes called a .
Backyard Blitz was a Logie Award winning Australian lifestyle and DIY television program that aired on the Nine Network between 2000 through to 2007 before its cancellation. It was hosted by Jamie Durie and was produced by Don Burke.
}}
In chess, a pin is a situation brought on by an attacking piece in which a defending piece cannot move without exposing a more valuable defending piece on its other side to capture by the attacking piece. &quot;To pin&quot; refers to the action of the attacking piece inducing the pin, and the defending piece so restricted is described as pinned.
A sport utility vehicle or suburban utility vehicle (SUV) is a vehicle classified as a light truck, but operated as a family vehicle.  SUVs are similar to a large station wagon or estate car, though typically featuring tall interior packaging, high H-point seating, high center of gravity, high ground-clearance and especially four- or all-wheel-drive capability for on- or off-road ability.
A timecode (alternatively, time code) is a sequence of numeric codes generated at regular intervals by a timing synchronization system.
Victoria Adams may refer to:
Torture (from the Latin tortus, &quot;twisted&quot;) is the act of deliberately inflicting physical or psychological pain in order to fulfill some desire of the torturer or compel some action from the victim. Torture, by definition, is a knowing and intentional act; deeds which unknowingly or negligently inflict pain without a specific intent to do so are not typically considered torture.
thumb|right|A model of a 19th-century cotton gin on display at the [[Eli Whitney Museum in Hamden, Connecticut.]]
FreeCell is a solitaire-based card game played with a 52-card standard deck. It is fundamentally different from most solitaire games in that very few hands are unsolvable.
Norfolk is a county in England.
Direct current (DC) is the unidirectional flow of electric charge. A battery is a good example of a DC power supply.
Domain may refer to:
Station may refer to:
A high-voltage, direct current (HVDC) electric power transmission system (also called a power super highway or an electrical super highway) uses direct current for the bulk transmission of electrical power, in contrast with the more common alternating current (AC) systems.Arrillaga, Jos; High Voltage Direct Current Transmission, second edition, Institution of Electrical Engineers, , 1998.
A flagstaff is a staff for displaying a flag; see Flagpole.
statC
The School of Advanced Military Studies (SAMS) is one of four United States Army schools that make up the United States Army Command and General Staff College (CGSC) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. This &quot;enormously rigorous&quot;Scales 2009.
In telecommunication systems, Carrier frequency is a technical term used to indicate:
Borac Banja Luka (1st title)
Dicaearchus of Messana (;  Dikaiarkhos; c. 350 – c.
Washington County is a county located in the western part of the U.S.
Howard County is a county located in the central part of the U.S.
Fourier-transform spectroscopy is a measurement technique whereby spectra are collected based on measurements of the coherence of a radiative source, using time-domain or space-domain measurements of the electromagnetic radiation or other type of radiation.
Ramanujan, Ramanuja, or Ramanujam may refer to:
==Births==
==Births==
&quot;Sin City&quot;,  &quot;City of Lights&quot;, &quot;The Gambling Capital of the World&quot;, &quot;The Entertainment Capital of the World&quot;, &quot;Capital of Second Chances&quot;, &quot;The Marriage Capital of the World&quot;, &quot;The Silver City&quot;, &quot;America's Playground&quot;
lyn Bridge, viewed from Manhattan
Land for peace is an interpretation of UN Security Council Resolution 242 which has formed the basis of subsequent Arab-Israeli peace making. The name Land for Peace is derived from the wording of the resolution's first operative paragraph which affirms that peace should include the application of two principles: Withdrawal of Israeli forces (Giving Up Land), and Termination of all claims or states of belligerency (Making Peace).
Domesday Book ( or ; Latin: Liber de Wintonia &quot;Book of Winchester&quot;) is a manuscript record of the &quot;Great Survey&quot; of much of England and parts of Wales completed in 1086 by order of King William the Conqueror. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle states:
The following list in mathematics contains the finite groups of small order up to group isomorphism.
Hitchhiking (also known as thumbing, hitching, or autostop) is a means of transportation that is gained by asking people, usually strangers, for a ride in their automobile or other vehicle. A ride is usually, but not always, free.
Environmental economics is a sub-field of economics that is concerned with environmental issues. Quoting from the National Bureau of Economic Research Environmental Economics program:
In computer science CDR coding is a compressed data representation for Lisp linked lists. It was developed and patented by the MIT Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and implemented in computer hardware in a number of Lisp machines derived from the MIT CADR.
In computer science, the term threaded code refers to a programming technique where the code has a form that essentially consists entirely of calls to subroutines. It is often, but not only, found in compiler implementations that generate code in that form and/or are implemented in that form themselves.
NASDAQ-100 ComponentS&amp;P 100 ComponentS&amp;P 500 Component
Transistor–transistor logic (TTL) is a class of digital circuits built from bipolar junction transistors (BJTs) and resistors. It is called transistor–transistor logic because transistors perform both the logic function (e.
TTL may refer to:
An instruction set architecture (ISA) is an abstract model of a computer. It is also referred to as architecture or computer architecture.
MACLISP (or Maclisp, sometimes styled MacLisp or MacLISP) is a dialect of the Lisp programming language. It originated at MIT's Project MAC (from which it derived its prefix) in the late 1960s and was based on Lisp 1.
Lisp Machine Lisp is a dialect of the Lisp programming language. A direct descendant of Maclisp, it was initially developed in the mid to late 1970s as the systems programming language for the MIT Lisp machines.
Maskun may refer to:
Ponape may refer to:
__NOTOC__
Environmental finance is the use of various financial instruments (usually land trusts and emissions trading) to protect the environment. The field is part of both environmental economics and the conservation movement.
Year 214 (CCXIV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Messalla and Suetrius (or, less frequently, year 967 Ab urbe condita).
Quality of life (QOL) is the general well-being  of individuals and societies, outlining negative and positive features of life. It observes life satisfaction, including everything from physical health, family, education, employment, wealth, religious beliefs, finance and the environment.
The Mars program was a series of unmanned spacecraft launched by the Soviet Union between 1960 and 1973. The spacecraft were intended to explore Mars, and included flyby probes, landers and orbiters.
thumb|200px|Sculpture of a [[Martian (The War of the Worlds)|Wellsian Martian Tripod in the town of Woking, England]]
Voyager}}
thumb|Patience, [[engraving by Hans Sebald Beham, 1540]]
Trogon (genus)}}
H.M.
Vector quantization (VQ) is a classical quantization technique from signal processing that allows the modeling of probability density functions by the distribution of prototype vectors. It was originally used for data compression.
The elk (Cervus canadensis) is a mammal very closely related to Eurasian red deer (Cervus elaphus).
}}Averroes
In telecommunications, information transfer is the process of moving messages containing user information from a source to a sink via a Communication channel. In this sense, information transfer is equivalent to data transmission which highlights more practical, technical aspects.
In Connection-oriented communication, a data stream is a sequence of digitally encoded coherent signals (packets of data or data packets) used to transmit or receive information that is in the process of being transmitted.Federal Standard 1037C data stream
&quot;Lorry&quot; is the British English term for a truck, a large motor vehicle
A pickup truck is a light duty truck having an enclosed cab and an open cargo area with low sides and tailgate. Once a work tool with few creature comforts, in the 1950s consumers began purchasing pickups for lifestyle reasons and by the 1990s less than 15 percent of owners reported use in work as the pickup truck's primary purpose.
Roguelike is a term used to describe a subgenre of role-playing video games that are characterized by a dungeon crawl through procedurally generated game levels, turn-based gameplay, tile-based graphics, and permanent death of the player-character. Most roguelikes are based on a high fantasy narrative, reflecting their influence from tabletop role playing games such as Dungeons &amp; Dragons.
}}
Year 212 (CCXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Asper and Camilius (or, less frequently, year 965 Ab urbe condita).
The augur was a priest and official in the  classical Roman world. His main role was the practice of augury, interpreting the will of the gods by studying the flight of birds: whether they are flying in groups or alone, what noises they make as they fly, direction of flight and what kind of birds they are.
In probability theory and related fields, a stochastic or random process  is a mathematical object usually defined as a collection  of random variables. Historically, the random variables were associated with or indexed by a set of numbers, usually viewed as points in time, giving the interpretation of a stochastic process representing numerical values of some system randomly changing over time, such as the growth of a bacterial population, an electrical current fluctuating due to thermal noise, or the movement of a gas molecule.
(aged 55)
In computer networks, to upload is to send data to a remote system such as a server or another client so that the remote system can store a copy.
Madras is the former name of Chennai, the capital of Tamil Nadu state in India.
The Jordan River (also River Jordan;  Nahar ha-Yarden;  Nahr al-Urdun, Ancient Greek: Ιορδάνης, Iordànes) is a -long river in the Middle East that flows roughly north to south through the Sea of Galilee and on to the Dead Sea. Israel and the West Bank border the river to the west, while the Golan Heights and Jordan lie to its east.
Chance may refer to:
A news agency (French: agence de presse) is an organization that gathers news reports and sells them to subscribing news organizations, such as newspapers, magazines and radio and television broadcasters. A news agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire, or news service.
Free will is the ability to choose between different possible courses of action unimpeded.Omoregie, J.
Determinism is the philosophical position that for every event there exist conditions that could cause no other event. &quot;There are many determinisms, depending on what pre-conditions are considered to be determinative of an event or action.
A job is  a regular activity performed in exchange for payment.
Battle of Niš}}
thumb|300px|[[M. C.
Gloucester is a city and the county town of Gloucestershire, United Kingdom. It may also refer to:
thumb|400px|The divided Empire in AD 271.
In set theory, the union (denoted by ∪) of a collection of sets is the set of all elements in the collection. It is one of the fundamental operations through which sets can be combined and related to each other.
Musical composition can refer to an original piece of music, either a song or an instrumental music piece, the structure of a musical piece, or the process of creating or writing a new song or piece of music. People who create new compositions are called composers in classical music.
right|thumb|200px|The equine dental arcade, showing the front incisors, the interdental space before the first premolars
thumb|250px|Mouthing a two tooth grass-fed [[Murray Grey heifer prior to sale.]] The age of cattle is determined chiefly by examination of the teeth, and less perfectly by the horn rings or the length of the tail brush; however due to bang-tailing, which is the act of cutting the long hairs at the tip of the tail short to identify the animal after management practices, the latter is least reliable.
Authenticity}}
Justin I (, ; 2 February 450 – 1 August 527) was Eastern Roman Emperor from 518 to 527. He rose through the ranks of the army and ultimately became Emperor, in spite of the fact he was illiterate and almost 70 years old at the time of accession.
Dr. No is the sixth novel by the English author Ian Fleming to feature his British Secret Service agent James Bond.
The Ganga, or Ganges, formerly also  spelled Gunga, is one of the largest rivers in India.
The membership of the Yardbirds has seen many lineup changes ever since the English rock band formed in the 1960s. The band's original run lasted from 1963 to 1968.
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a communications protocol used for resolution of Internet layer addresses into link layer addresses, a critical function in the Internet protocol suite. ARP was defined by  in 1982, and is Internet Standard STD 37.
Earthling, a term identifying inhabitants of the planet Earth, is commonly used in science fiction to contrast Earth-born organisms and characters, whose ethnicity or nationality diaspora originated on Earth, with extraterrestrials. Similar terms are Terran and Gaian.
Year 218 (CCXVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Severus and Adventus (or, less frequently, year 971 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
An urban growth boundary, or UGB, is a regional boundary, set in an  attempt to control urban sprawl by, in its simplest form, mandating that the area inside the boundary be used for urban development and the area outside be preserved in its natural state or used for agriculture. Legislating for an &quot;urban growth boundary&quot; is one way, among many others, of managing the major challenges posed by unplanned urban growth and the encroachment of cities upon agricultural and rural land.
Year 215 (CCXV) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Laetus and Sulla (or, less frequently, year 968 Ab urbe condita).
UGB may mean:
Year 989 (CMLXXXIX) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 988 (CMLXXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 987 (CMLXXXVII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 985 (CMLXXXV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 982 (CMLXXXII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 981 (CMLXXXI) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The word schema comes from the Greek word  (), which means shape, or more generally, plan.  The plural is  ().
Anzac Day  is a national day of remembrance in Australia and New Zealand that broadly commemorates all Australians and New Zealanders &quot;who served and died in all wars, conflicts, and peacekeeping operations&quot; and &quot;the contribution and suffering of all those who have served&quot;. Observed on 25 April each year, Anzac Day was originally to honour the members of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) who fought at Gallipoli against the Ottoman Empire during World War I.
Route may refer to:
Relativism is the idea that views are relative to differences in perception and consideration. There is no universal, objective truth according to relativism; rather each point of view has its own truth.
In computer networking a routing table, or routing information base (RIB), is a data table stored in a router or a networked computer that lists the routes to particular network destinations, and in some cases, metrics (distances) associated with those routes. The routing table contains information about the topology of the network immediately around it.
The Transcendental Argument for the Existence of God (TAG) is the argument that attempts to prove God's existence by arguing that logic, morals, and science ultimately presuppose a supreme being, and that God must be the source of logic and morals. A version was formulated by Immanuel Kant in his 1763 work The Only Possible Argument in Support of a Demonstration of the Existence of God and most contemporary formulations of the transcendental argument have been developed within the framework of Christian presuppositional apologetics.
A syllogism ( syllogismos, &quot;conclusion, inference&quot;) is a kind of logical argument that applies deductive reasoning to arrive at a conclusion based on two or more propositions that are asserted or assumed to be true.
Engrish (;  Ingurisshu, ) is a slang term for the misuse or corruption of the English language by native speakers of Asian languages. The term itself relates to Japanese speakers' tendency to inadvertently substitute the English phonemes &quot;R&quot; and &quot;L&quot; for one another, because, unlike English, the Japanese language has only one liquid consonant (traditionally romanized with &quot;R&quot;).
An autonomous robot is a robot that performs behaviors or tasks with a high degree of autonomy, which is particularly desirable in fields such as spaceflight, household maintenance (such as cleaning), waste water treatment and delivering goods and services.
Moral relativism may be any of several philosophical positions concerned with the differences in moral judgments across different people and cultures. Descriptive moral relativism holds only that some people do in fact disagree about what is moral; meta-ethical moral relativism holds that in such disagreements, nobody is objectively right or wrong; and normative moral relativism holds that because nobody is right or wrong, we ought to tolerate the behavior of others even when we disagree about the morality of it.
An argument from nonbelief is a philosophical argument that asserts an inconsistency between the existence of God and a world in which people fail to recognize him.  It is similar to the classic argument from evil in affirming an inconsistency between the world that exists and the world that would exist if God had certain desires combined with the power to see them through.
Play School or Playschool may refer to:
The 19th century BC was the century which lasted from 1900 BC to 1801 BC.
In mathematics and computing, Fibonacci coding is a universal code which encodes positive integers into binary code words. It is one example of representations of integers based on Fibonacci numbers.
thumb|right|[[Satellite imagery|Satellite image of Noordoostpolder, Netherlands (595.41 km²)]]
Joseph Maurice Ravel (; 7 March 1875 – 28 December 1937) was a French composer, pianist and conductor. He is often associated with impressionism along with his elder contemporary Claude Debussy, although both composers rejected the term.
Essentialism is the view that every entity has a set of attributes that are necessary to its identity and function. In early Western thought Plato's idealism held that all things have such an &quot;essence,&quot; an &quot;Idea&quot; or &quot;Form&quot;.
A great circle, also known as an orthodrome, of a sphere is the intersection of the sphere and a plane that passes through the center point of the sphere. A great circle is the largest circle that can be drawn on any given sphere.
Virtual management, is the supervision, leadership, and maintenance of virtual teams—dispersed work groups that rarely, if ever, meet face to face. As the number of virtual teams has grown, brought about by the rise of the Internet, globalization, outsourcing, telecommuting the need to manage them has also grown.
Embarazada () is the Spanish word for pregnant. It is a false friend for native English-speaking students of Spanish who may attempt to say &quot;I'm embarrassed&quot; by saying &quot;estoy embarazada&quot;.
Much of Welsh language poetry has, until quite recently, been composed in various forms of strict metre (canu caeth), latterly with the encouragement of the eisteddfod movement. The following list is as inclusive as possible for the years prior to 1600.
InterMezzo was a distributed file system written for the Linux kernel, distributed under the GNU General Public License. It was included in the standard Linux kernel from version 2.
Bitch, literally meaning a female dog, is a slang [for a person, commonly a woman, who is belligerent, unreasonable, malicious, a control freak], rudely intrusive or aggressive. When applied to a man, bitch is a derogatory term for a subordinate.
Basic may refer to:
Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid, also known as GEB, is a 1979 book by Douglas Hofstadter. The tagline &quot;a metaphorical fugue on minds and machines in the spirit of Lewis Carroll&quot; was used by the publisher to describe the book.
Lokroi}}
Recurrence and recurrent may refer to:
CTW may refer to:
Miffy (, pronounced ) is a small female rabbit in a series of picture books drawn and written by Dutch artist Dick Bruna. The original Dutch name, Nijntje, is a shortening of the diminutive konijntje, &quot;little rabbit&quot;.
Over the course of some fourteen centuries, the Romans and other peoples of Italy employed a system of nomenclature that differed from that used by other cultures of Europe and the Mediterranean, consisting of a combination of personal and family names.  Although conventionally referred to as the tria nomina, the combination of praenomen, nomen, and cognomen that have come to be regarded as the basic elements of the Roman name in fact represent a continuous process of development, from at least the seventh century BC to the end of the seventh century AD.
Hares and jackrabbits are leporids belonging to the genus Lepus. Hares are classified into the same family as rabbits.
A temple (from the Latin word ) is a structure reserved for religious or spiritual rituals and activities such as prayer and sacrifice.  It is typically used for such buildings belonging to all faiths where a more specific term such as church, mosque or synagogue is not generally used in English.
The Amazon rainforest (Portuguese:  or ; ,  or usually ; ; ), also known in English as Amazonia or the Amazon Jungle, is a moist broadleaf forest in the Amazon biome that covers most of the Amazon basin of South America. This basin encompasses , of which  are covered by the rainforest.
Mac or MAC may refer to:
Proxy ARP is a technique by which a device on a given network answers the ARP queries for an IP address that is not on that network. The ARP Proxy is aware of the location of the traffic's destination, and offers its own MAC address as (ostensibly final) destination.
A microcomputer is a small, relatively inexpensive computer with a microprocessor as its central processing unit (CPU). It includes a microprocessor, memory, and minimal input/output (I/O) circuitry mounted on a single printed circuit board.
Bebop or bop is a style of jazz developed in the early to mid-1940s in the United States, which features songs characterized by a fast tempo, complex chord progressions with rapid chord changes and numerous changes of key, instrumental virtuosity, and improvisation based on a combination of harmonic structure, the use of scales and occasional references to the melody.
thumb|right|[[Coal, one of the fossil fuels]]
* folk
thumb|An okpoho or [[manillas|manilla, the traditional commodity money in West Africa until the 1940s.]]
Walter F. Hellman  (June 15, 1916 – July 28, 1975) was the longest reigning world American checkers champion.
In mathematics, more specifically in ring theory, a maximal ideal is an ideal that is maximal (with respect to set inclusion) amongst all proper ideals. In other words, I is a maximal ideal of a ring R if there are no other ideals contained between I and R.
A priori may refer to:
In abstract algebra, a congruence relation (or simply congruence) is an equivalence relation on an algebraic structure (such as a group, ring, or vector space) that is compatible with the structure.Hungerford,  Thomas W..
The following is a list of mental disorders as defined by the DSM and ICD.
National parks in the Netherlands were defined in the 1960s as areas of at least 10 km² consisting of natural terrains, water and/or forests, with a special landscape and flora and fauna.
Chinook may refer to:
Pino}}
A humanoid robot is a robot with its body shape built to resemble the human body. The design may be for functional purposes, such as interacting with human tools and environments, for experimental purposes, such as the study of al locomotion, or for other purposes.
Nigel Thomas, K. Mikulan, Darko Pavlović, The Yugoslav Wars, p.
}}
National Liberation Army is the name of several groups:
Camera obscura (plural camerae obscurae or camera obscurasOxford English Dictionary. Plurals of foreign nounsStack Exchange: Plural of camera obscura; from Latin, meaning &quot;dark room&quot;: camera &quot;(vaulted) chamber or room,&quot; and obscura &quot;darkened, dark&quot;), also referred to as pinhole image, is the natural optical phenomenon that occurs when an image of a scene at the other side of a screen (or for instance a wall) is projected through a small hole in that screen as a reversed and inverted image (left to right and upside down) on a surface opposite to the opening.
Green money refers to:
Lime primarily refers to:
NLA may refer to:
An article  (with the linguistic glossing abbreviation ) is a word that is used alongside a noun (as a standalone word or a prefix or suffix) to specify grammatical definiteness of the noun, and in some languages extending to volume or numerical scope.
This article outlines the historical development of the laws describing ideal gases. For a detailed description of the ideal gas laws and their further development see ideal gas law.
thumb|Golomb ruler of order 4 and length 6. This ruler is both optimal and perfect.
Ice cream (derived from earlier iced cream or cream ice) is a sweetened frozen food typically eaten as a snack or dessert. It is usually made from dairy products, such as milk and cream, and often combined with fruits or other ingredients and flavors.
In economics, a commodity is a marketable item produced to satisfy wants or needs. Often the item is fungible.
Point or points may refer to:
PCB}}
PCB may refer to:
In organic chemistry, the phenyl group or phenyl ring is a cyclic group of atoms with the formula C6H5. Phenyl groups are closely related to benzene and can be viewed as a benzene ring, minus a hydrogen,which may be replaced by some other element or compound to serve as a functional group.
Dafydd ap Gwilym (c. 1315/1320 – c.
Vaudeville (; ) is a theatrical genre of variety entertainment. It was especially popular in the United States and Canada from the early 1880s until the early 1930s.
Saunders Lewis (born John Saunders Lewis)(Wallasey, England)(15 October 1893 – 1 September 1985) was a Welsh poet, dramatist, historian, literary critic, and political activist. He was a prominent Welsh nationalist and a founder of Plaid Genedlaethol Cymru (the National Party of Wales), later known as Plaid Cymru.
In astronomy and navigation, the celestial sphere is an abstract sphere, with an arbitrarily large radius, that is concentric to Earth. All objects in the observer's sky can be conceived as projected upon the inner surface of the celestial sphere, as if it were the underside of a dome or a hemispherical screen.
Causation may refer to:
In mathematics, specifically in group theory, the concept of a semidirect product is a generalization of a direct product. There are two closely related concepts of semidirect product: an inner semidirect product is a particular way in which a group can be constructed from two subgroups, one of which is a normal subgroup, while an outer semidirect product is a Cartesian product as a set, but with a particular multiplication operation.
Worcester County is the name of two counties in the United States of America:
thumb|upright|A piece generated in [[Apophysis (software)|Apophysis]]
==Births==
The concept of a random sequence is essential in probability theory and statistics. The concept generally relies on the notion of a sequence of random variables and many statistical discussions begin with the words &quot;let X1,...
right|thumb|An [[artist's impression of a bounded set (top) and of an unbounded set (bottom). The set at the bottom continues forever towards the right.
right|thumb|Figure 1. A monotonically increasing function.
Benjamin &quot;Ben&quot; Jonson (c. 11 June 1572 – 6 August 1637) was an English playwright, poet, actor, and literary critic, whose artistry exerted a lasting impact upon English poetry and stage comedy.
Representative money is any medium of exchange that represents something of value, but has little or no value of its own (intrinsic value). However, unlike fiat money (which may not have anything of value backing it), to be a genuine representative money, there must always be something valuable supporting the face value represented.
Howard Spring (10 February 1889 – 3 May 1965) was a Welsh author and journalist who wrote in English. He began his writing career as a journalist but from 1934 produced a series of best-selling novels for adults and children.
Khalil el-Moumni (born 1 July 1941, Beni Mansour, Morocco) is a Moroccan imam who preaches at the An-Nasr Mosque in Rotterdam, the Netherlands.  He has been a center of controversy for his views on homosexuality, which brought him into open conflict with the Dutch politician Pim Fortuyn.
The history of the State of Palestine describes the creation and evolution of the State of Palestine in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Jerzy (Georg) Daniel Schultz  known also as Daniel Schultz the Younger (1615–1683) was a famous painter of the Baroque era, born and active in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. He painted many Polish and Lithuanian nobles, members of the royal family, local Patricians, such as the astronomer Johannes Hevelius; animals, and hunts.
A sandwich is a food item typically made of two pieces of bread with layers of food (meat, salad...) between them.
An international auxiliary language (sometimes abbreviated as IAL or auxlang) or interlanguage is a language meant for communication between people from different nations who do not share a common first language. An auxiliary language is primarily a second language.
IAL may refer to:
Algebraic notation (or AN) is a method for recording and describing the moves in a game of chess. It is based on a system of coordinates to uniquely identify each square on the chessboard.
In Australia, a milk bar is a suburban local general store or café. Similar terms include tuck shops, delicatessens or &quot;delis&quot;,  and corner shops or corner stores (although by definition these are different establishments).
Hans Holbein the Elder (c. 1460 – 1524) was a German painter.
Albrecht Giese (February 10, 1524 – August 1, 1580) was a councilman and diplomat of the city of Danzig (Gdańsk).
thumb|right|300px|The north and south celestial poles and their relation to [[Rotation|axis of rotation, plane of orbit and axial tilt.]]
In linguistics, measure words are words (or morphemes) that are used in combination with a numeral to indicate an amount of something represented by some noun.
The retina ( ,  , pl. retinae, ; from Latin rēte, meaning &quot;net&quot;) is the third and inner coat of the eye which is a light-sensitive layer of tissue.
An electrolyte is a substance that produces an electrically conducting solution when dissolved in a polar solvent, such as water. The dissolved electrolyte separates into cations and anions, which disperse uniformly through the solvent.
thumb|upright|A [[monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) caterpillar feeding on a leaf of the swamp milkweed]]
Parachutes (album)}}
Pesticides are substances that are meant to control pests or weeds.US Environmental (July 24, 2007), What is a pesticide?
Pope Alexander}}
Le Pétomane (, ) was the stage name of the French flatulist (professional farter) and entertainer Joseph Pujol (June 1, 1857 – 1945). He was famous for his remarkable control of the abdominal muscles, which enabled him to seemingly fart at will.
In cryptography, a substitution cipher is a method of encoding by which units of plaintext are replaced with ciphertext, according to a fixed system; the &quot;units&quot; may be single letters (the most common), pairs of letters, triplets of letters, mixtures of the above, and so forth. The receiver deciphers the text by performing the inverse substitution.
In cryptography, a transposition cipher is a method of encryption by which the positions held by units of plaintext (which are commonly characters or groups of characters) are shifted according to a regular system, so that the ciphertext constitutes a permutation of the plaintext. That is, the order of the units is changed (the plaintext is reordered).
A geographic coordinate system is a coordinate system used in geography that enables every location on Earth to be specified by a set of numbers, letters or symbols.In specialized works, &quot;geographic coordinates&quot; are distinguished from other similar coordinate systems, such as geocentric coordinates and geodetic coordinates.
right|thumbnail|320px|ROT13 replaces each letter by its partner 13 characters further along the alphabet. For example, HELLO becomes URYYB (or, conversely, URYYB becomes HELLO again).
Software architecture refers to the high level structures of a software system, the discipline of creating such structures, and the documentation of these structures. These structures are needed to reason about the software system.
Polyurethane (PUR and PU) is a polymer composed of organic units joined by carbamate (urethane) links. While most polyurethanes are thermosetting polymers that do not melt when heated, thermoplastic polyurethanes are also available.
Jean-Pierre Fernand Noël Abbat (June 17, 1928 – August 1, 1993) was, with Dr. Fritz Hartmann, the first person in the USA to manufacture polyurethane.
CT or ct may refer to:
In cryptography, Triple DES (3DES), officially the Triple Data Encryption Algorithm (TDEA or Triple DEA), is a symmetric-key block cipher, which applies the DES cipher algorithm three times to each data block.
__NOTOC__
In astronomy, a celestial coordinate system is a system for specifying positions of celestial objects: satellites, planets, stars, galaxies, and so on. Coordinate systems can specify a position in 3-dimensional space, or merely the direction of the object on the celestial sphere, if its distance is not known or not important.
Eudoxus may refer to:
The equatorial coordinate system is a celestial coordinate system widely used to specify the positions of celestial objects. It may be implemented in spherical or rectangular coordinates, both defined by an origin at the centre of Earth, a fundamental plane consisting of the projection of Earth's equator onto the celestial sphere (forming the celestial equator), a primary direction towards the vernal equinox, and a right-handed convention.
right|350px|thumb|Azimuth is measured from the north point (sometimes from the south point) of the horizon around to the east; altitude is the angle above the horizon.
The ecliptic coordinate system is a celestial coordinate system commonly used for representing the positions and orbits of Solar System objects. Because most planets (except Mercury), and many small Solar System bodies have orbits with small inclinations to the ecliptic, using it as the
BC}}
The galactic coordinate system is a celestial coordinate system in spherical coordinates, with the Sun as its center, the primary direction aligned with the approximate center of the Milky Way galaxy, and the fundamental plane parallel to an approximation of the galactic plane but offset to its north. It uses the right-handed convention, meaning that coordinates are positive toward the north and toward the east in the fundamental plane.
;
In physics, the Navier–Stokes equations , named after Claude-Louis Navier and George Gabriel Stokes, describe the motion of viscous fluid substances. These balance equations arise from applying Newton's second law to fluid motion, together with the assumption that the stress in the fluid is the sum of a diffusing viscous term (proportional to the gradient of velocity) and a pressure term—hence describing viscous flow.
Mathematical analysis is the branch of mathematics dealing with limits
thumb|The isocyanate functional group
Philosophical analysis (from ) is a general term for techniques typically used by philosophers in the analytic tradition that involve &quot;breaking down&quot; (i.e.
The Internet backbone might be defined by the principal data routes between large, strategically interconnected computer networks and core routers on the Internet. These data routes are hosted by commercial, government, academic and other high-capacity network centers, the Internet exchange points and network access points, that exchange Internet traffic between the countries, continents and across the oceans.
In mathematics, a ring is one of the fundamental algebraic structures used in abstract algebra. It consists of a set equipped with two binary operations that generalize the arithmetic operations of addition and multiplication.
In cryptography, a Caesar cipher, also known as Caesar's cipher, the shift cipher, Caesar's code or Caesar shift, is one of the simplest and most widely known encryption techniques. It is a type of substitution cipher in which each letter in the plaintext is replaced by a letter some fixed number of positions down the alphabet.
__NOTOC__
Year 368 (CCCLXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Augustus and Valens (or, less frequently, year 1121 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 362 (CCCLXII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Mamertinus and Nevitta (or, less frequently, year 1115 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 358 (CCCLVIII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Datianus and Cerealis (or, less frequently, year 1111 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 352 (CCCLII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Decentius and Paulus (or, less frequently, year 1105 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 348 (CCCXLVIII) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Philippus and Salia (or, less frequently, year 1101 Ab urbe condita).
Year 347 (CCCXLVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Rufinus and Eusebius (or, less frequently, year 1100 Ab urbe condita).
Year 346 (CCCXLVI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Constantius and Claudius (or, less frequently, year 1099 Ab urbe condita).
Year 345 (CCCXLV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Amantius and Albinus (or, less frequently, year 1098 Ab urbe condita).
Year 344 (CCCXLIV) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Leontius and Bonosus (or, less frequently, year 1097 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
CMM may refer to:
(Trm̃mis)Greek Λυκία (Lukia)
Year 340 (CCCXL) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Acindynus and Valerius (or, less frequently, year 1093 Ab urbe condita).
Year 339 (CCCXXXIX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Constantius and Claudius (or, less frequently, year 1092 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 336 (CCCXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Nepotianus and Facundus (or, less frequently, year 1089 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 332 (CCCXXXII) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pacatianus and Hilarianus (or, less frequently, year 1085 Ab urbe condita).
Frederick Augustus}}
The Academy Award for Best Story was an Academy Award given from the beginning of the Academy Awards until 1957, when it was eliminated in favor of the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 317 (CCCXVII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Gallicanus and Bassus (or, less frequently, year 1070 Ab urbe condita).
Year 318 (CCCXVIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Licinianus and Crispus (or, less frequently, year 1071 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Orléans is a city in north-central France, about 100 km south-west of Paris.
Magic or sorcery is the use of rituals, symbols, actions, gestures, and language with the aim of utilizing supernatural forces. The term magic has a variety of meanings, and there is no widely agreed upon definition of what it is or how it can be used.
Provence (; ; Provençal: Provença in classical norm or Prouvènço in Mistralian norm, ) is a geographical region and historical province of southeastern France, which extends from the left bank of the lower Rhône River to the west to the Italian border to the east, and is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the south.See article on Provence in the French-language Wikipedia.
A philosophical movement is either the appearance or increased popularity of a specific school of philosophy, or a fairly broad but identifiable sea-change in philosophical thought on a particular subject.  Major philosophical movements are often characterized with reference to the nation, language, or historical era in which they arose.
A terrestrial planet, telluric planet, or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. The terms &quot;terrestrial planet&quot; and &quot;telluric planet&quot; are derived from Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus), as these planets are, in terms of composition, &quot;Earth-like&quot;.
Sublette County is a county located in the U.S.
An antelope is a member of a number of even-toed ungulate species indigenous to various regions in Africa and Eurasia. Antelopes comprise a wastebasket taxon (miscellaneous group) within the family Bovidae, encompassing those Old World species that are not cattle, sheep, buffalo, bison, or goats; even so, antelope are generally more deer-like than other bovids.
A highway is any public road or other public way on land. It is used for major roads, but also includes other public roads and public tracks: It is not an equivalent term to controlled-access highway, or a translation for autobahn, autoroute, etc.
}}
Transister was an alternative rock band, formed in late 1995 in Los Angeles, by music industry veterans from both the United States and the United Kingdom.  Despite only having released one album to moderate sales, their work has been featured on a number of film soundtracks.
thumb|300px|Coins of the Avars 6th-7th centuries CE, imitating [[Ravenna mint types of Heraclius.CNG Coins Pannonian Avars , also known as the Obri in Ruthenia]n chronicles, the Abaroi and Varchonitai (Warhonits) in [[Byzantine Empire|Byzantine sources,Avars at the Encyclopedia of Ukraine the Varchonites by the Göktürks and the &quot;Pseudo-Avars&quot;,According to Grousset, Empire of the Steppes, page 171,Theophylact Simocatta called them pseudo-Avars because he thought the true Avars were the Rouran.
The blood vessels are the part of the circulatory system that transports blood throughout the human body. There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart.
A dry ski slope or artificial ski slope is a ski slope that mimics the attributes of snow using materials that are stable at room temperature, to enable people to ski, snowboard or snow tube in places where natural, snow-covered slopes are inconvenient or unavailable.
}}
gauge
A television licence or broadcast receiving licence is an official record of payment required in many countries for the reception of television broadcasts, or the possession of a television set where some broadcasts are funded in full or in part by the licence fee paid. The licence is sometimes also required to own a radio or receive radio broadcasts.
A chess variant (or unorthodox chess) is a game &quot;related to, derived from, or inspired by chess&quot;. The difference from chess might include one or more of the following:
In Christianity, an archbishop (, via Latin archiepiscopus, from Greek , from -, &quot;chief&quot;, and , &quot;bishop&quot;), . is a bishop of higher rank or office.
A synagogue, also spelled synagog (pronounced ; from Greek , , 'assembly',  , 'house of assembly' or  , &quot;house of prayer&quot;,  shul,   or  ), is a Jewish house of prayer.
In mathematics, and more specifically in graph theory, a tree is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by exactly one path. In other words, any acyclic connected graph is a tree.
thumb|Airport traffic control tower at [[Bordeaux–Mérignac Airport. ]]
Ecovillages  are traditional or intentional communities whose goal is to become more socially, culturally, economically and ecologically sustainable. Ecovillages are consciously designed through locally owned, participatory processes to regenerate and restore their social and natural environments.
Ecgberht (771/775 – 839), also spelled Egbert, Ecgbert, or Ecgbriht, was King of Wessex from 802 until his death in 839. His father was Ealhmund of Kent.
thumb|300px|Cîteaux Abbey
The Andromeda Strain is a 1969 techno-thriller novel by Michael Crichton documenting the efforts of a team of scientists investigating the outbreak of a deadly extraterrestrial microorganism in Arizona. The Andromeda Strain appeared in the New York Times Best Seller list, establishing Michael Crichton as a genre writer.
Romany relates or may refer to:
The  is a grammatical article in English, denoting person(s) or thing(s) already mentioned, under discussion, implied, or otherwise presumed familiar to listeners or readers. It is the only definite article in English.
Atomic, molecular, and optical physics (AMO) is the study of matter-matter and light-matter interactions; at the scale of one or a few atoms  and energy scales around several electron volts.  The three areas are closely interrelated.
Artcyclopedia is an online database of museum-quality fine art founded by Canadian John Malyon.
The Pulitzer Prize for Fiction is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It recognizes distinguished fiction by an American author, preferably dealing with American life, published during the preceding calendar year.
Æthelberht (or Ethelbert; , meaning &quot;magnificent noble&quot;) was the King of Kent from 858 and of Wessex from 860 until his death in 865. He was the third son of Æthelwulf of Wessex and his first wife, Osburh.
A martyr (Greek: μάρτυς, mártys, &quot;witness&quot;; stem μάρτυρ-, mártyr-) is someone who suffers persecution and death for advocating, renouncing, refusing to renounce, or refusing to advocate a belief or cause as demanded by an external party. This refusal to comply with the presented demands results in the punishment or execution of the martyr by the oppressor.
Graph may refer to:
Barbara Mary Crampton Pym (2 June 1913 – 11 January 1980) was an English novelist. In the 1950s she published a series of social comedies, of which the best known are Excellent Women (1952) and A Glass of Blessings (1958).
Dugout DougBig Chief
thumb|250px|A dining table with two chairs
The Lower Paleolithic era in the Korean Peninsula began roughly half a million years ago.
Wimbledon usually refers to:
A respiratory therapist is a specialized healthcare practitioner trained in pulmonary medicine in order to work therapeutically with people suffering from pulmonary disease, who has graduated from  a university and passed a national board certifying examination.  Respiratory therapists work most often in intensive care and operating rooms, but are also found in outpatient clinics and home-health environments.
The Pulitzer Prize for Poetry is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It has been presented since 1922 for a distinguished volume of original verse by an American author, published during the preceding calendar year.
Grassroots democracy is a tendency towards designing political processes where as much decision-making authority as practical is shifted to the organization's lowest geographic or social level of organization.http://www.
A war crime is an act that constitutes a serious violation of the law of war that gives rise to individual criminal responsibility. Examples of war crimes include intentionally killing civilians or prisoners, torture, destroying civilian property, taking hostages, perfidy, rape, using child soldiers, pillaging, declaring that no quarter will be given, and serious violations of the principles of distinction and proportionality, such as strategic bombing of civilian populations.
In number theory, a Gaussian integer is a complex number whose real and imaginary parts are both integers. The Gaussian integers, with ordinary addition and multiplication of complex numbers, form an integral domain, usually written as .
In topology and related branches of mathematics, a normal space is a topological space X that satisfies Axiom T4: every two disjoint closed sets of X have disjoint open neighborhoods. A normal Hausdorff space is also called a T4 space.
2014 was designated as:
In mathematics, a paracompact space is a topological space in which every open cover has an open refinement that is locally finite. These spaces were introduced by .
In topology and related branches of mathematics, a topological space is called locally compact if, roughly speaking, each small portion of the space looks like a small portion of a compact space.
The Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Photography is one of the American Pulitzer Prizes annually awarded for journalism. From 2000 it has used the &quot;breaking news&quot; name but it is considered a continuation of the Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography, which was awarded from 1968 to 1999.
In mathematics, a nowhere dense set on a topological space is a set whose closure has empty interior. In a very loose sense, it is a set whose elements are not tightly clustered (as defined by the topology on the space) anywhere.
In mathematics, a partition of unity of a topological space X is a set R of continuous functions from X to the unit interval [0,1] such that for every point, x\in X,
The Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Reporting is a Pulitzer Prize awarded for a distinguished example of breaking news, local reporting on news of the moment. It has been awarded since 1953 under several names:
Universal jurisdiction allows states or international organizations to claim criminal jurisdiction over an accused person regardless of where the alleged crime was committed, and regardless of the accused's nationality, country of residence, or any other relation with the prosecuting entity. Crimes prosecuted under universal jurisdiction are considered crimes against all, too serious to tolerate jurisdictional arbitrage.
Fritigern or FritigernusLatinized form, possibly from Gothic *Frithugairns (&quot;desiring peace&quot;). (died ca.
A fuzzy control system is a control system based on fuzzy logic—a mathematical system that analyzes analog input values in terms of  logical variables that take on continuous values between 0 and 1, in contrast to classical or digital logic, which operates on discrete values of either 1 or 0 (true or false, respectively).
A statistician is someone who works with theoretical or applied statistics. The profession exists in both the private and public sectors.
}}
Perlite is an amorphous volcanic glass that has a relatively high water content, typically formed by the hydration of obsidian.  It occurs naturally and has the unusual property of greatly expanding when heated sufficiently.
}}
Calvert County is a county located in the U.S.
Mahatma (Mə-HÄT-mə) is Sanskrit for &quot;Great Soul&quot;  (महात्मा mahātmā: महा mahā (great) + आत्मं or आत्मन ātman [soul]).  It is similar in usage to the modern English term saint.
==Births==
Kirkstall Abbey is a ruined Cistercian monastery in Kirkstall, north-west of Leeds city centre in West Yorkshire, England. It is set in a public park on the north bank of the River Aire.
In quantum mechanics, quantum suicide is a thought experiment, originally published independently by Hans Moravec in 1987 (If MWI is true, apocalyptic particle accelerators won't function as advertised). and Bruno Marchal in 1988, and independently developed further by Max Tegmark in 1998.
Vicarious Visions
Caratacus (Brythonic *Caratācos, Middle Welsh Caratawc; Welsh Caradog; Breton Karadeg; Greek Καράτακος; variants Latin Caractacus, Greek Καρτάκης) was a first-century British chieftain of the Catuvellauni tribe, who led the British resistance to the Roman conquest.
Richard Dafydd Vivian Llewellyn Lloyd (8 December 1906 – 30 November 1983), known by his pen name Richard Llewellyn, was a British novelist.
Richard Arthur Warren Hughes OBE (19 April 1900 – 28 April 1976) was a British writer of poems, short stories, novels and plays.Richard Perceval Graves: Richard Hughes.
*ska punk
The Oregon Trail is a  historic east–west, large-wheeled wagon route and emigrant trail that connected the Missouri River to valleys in Oregon. The eastern part of the Oregon Trail spanned part of the future state of Kansas, and nearly all of what are now the states of Nebraska and Wyoming.
}}
The Pulitzer Prize for Drama is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It is one of the original Pulitzers, for the program was inaugurated in 1917 with seven prizes, four of which were awarded that year.
An occupational therapist works with a client to help them achieve a fulfilled and satisfied state in life through the use of &quot;purposeful activity or interventions designed to achieve functional outcomes which promote health, prevent injury or disability   and which develop, improve, sustain or restore the highest possible level of independence.&quot;AOTA Inc.
This article is about the Roman law codification of Justinian I. For the canon law codification of a similar name, see Corpus Juris Canonici.
In the United States, Social Security is the commonly used term for the federal Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program.Social Security Administration, Social Insurance Programs, retrieved November 1, 2016.
A pyramid scheme is a business model that recruits members via a promise of payments or services for enrolling others into the scheme, rather than supplying investments or sale of products or services. As recruiting multiplies, recruiting becomes quickly impossible, and most members are unable to profit; as such, pyramid schemes are unsustainable and often illegal.
)
The English suffixes -phobia, -phobic, -phobe (from Greek φόβος phobos, &quot;fear&quot;) occur in technical usage in psychiatry to construct words that describe irrational, abnormal, unwarranted, persistent, or disabling fear as a mental disorder (e.g.
==Births==
Neo-fascism is a post–World War II ideology that includes significant elements of fascism. Neo-fascism usually includes ultranationalism, populism, anti-immigration policies or, where relevant, nativism, anti-communism,  anti-socialism, anti-Marxism, anti-anarchism and opposition to the parliamentary system and liberal democracy.
11,340 infantry12,768 dragoons2,500–5,000 irregulars30 cannons, 60 mortarsLesnaya (19–21,000):15,000–17,000 initially4,076 dragoons later arrived as reinforcementsPropoisk (1,400–1,900):900 dragoons500–1,000 irregularsOn the march (6,191):Artamonov V. The Mother of the Poltava Victory: the Battle of Lesnaya.
Denazification () was an Allied initiative to rid German and Austrian society, culture, press, economy, judiciary, and politics of any remnants of the National Socialist ideology (Nazism). It was carried out specifically by removing from positions of power and influence those who had been Nazi Party members and by disbanding or rendering impotent the organizations associated with Nazism.
Georgia}}
thumb|300px|[[Normans|Norman cavalry attacks the Anglo-Saxon shield wall at the Battle of Hastings as depicted in the Bayeux Tapestry. The lances are held with a one-handed over-the-head grip.
A halberd (also called halbard, halbert or Swiss voulge) is a two-handed pole weapon that came to prominent use during the 14th and 15th centuries. The word halberd may come from the German words Halm (staff), and Barte (axe).
Theory of Action is an area in philosophy concerned with theories about the processes causing willful human bodily movements of a more or less complex kind. This area of thought involves epistemology, ethics, metaphysics, jurisprudence, and philosophy of mind, and has attracted the strong interest of philosophers ever since Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics (Third Book).
–
Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica (English pronunciation , Latin for Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy), often referred to as simply the Principia, is a work in three books by Isaac Newton, in Latin, first published 5 July 1687. After annotating and correcting his personal copy of the first edition, Newton published two further editions, in 1713 and 1726.
Pathology (from the Greek roots of pathos (), meaning &quot;experience&quot; or &quot;suffering&quot;, and [(), &quot;study of&quot;) is a significant component of the causal] study of [[disease and a major field in modern medicine and diagnosis.
In gamma-ray astronomy, gamma-ray bursts (GRBs) are extremely energetic explosions that have been observed in distant galaxies. They are the brightest electromagnetic events known to occur in the universe.
(as Virgin Money London Marathon)
The Second Council of Constantinople is the fifth of the first seven ecumenical councils recognized by both the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church. It is also recognized by the Old Catholics and others.
thumb|One concept for Venus exploration ([[Venus In-Situ Explorer)]]
A , or , was a weapon launched by Japan during World War II. A hydrogen balloon with a load varying from a  antipersonnel bomb to one  incendiary bomb and four  incendiary devices attached, it was designed as a cheap weapon intended to make use of the jet stream over the Pacific Ocean and drop bombs on American and Canadian cities, forests, and farmland.
Frodo may mean:
The Clash of Civilizations is a hypothesis that people's cultural and religious identities will be the primary source of conflict in the post-Cold War world. American political scientist Samuel P.
A gravitational lens is a distribution of matter (such as a cluster of galaxies) between a distant light source and an observer, that is capable of bending the light from the source as the light travels towards the observer. This effect is known as gravitational lensing, and the amount of bending is one of the predictions of Albert Einstein's general theory of relativity.
Wittenberg old town with view to the Castle church (undergoing repairs), Market square with town hall and Stadtkirche Wittenberg, inside Wittenberg castle church and Leucorea university
Georgia}}
Kava or kava-kava (Piper methysticum: Latin  &quot;pepper&quot; + Latinized Greek &quot;intoxicating&quot;) is a crop of the western Pacific.
Sidereal Time}}
In astronomy and celestial navigation, the hour angle is one of the coordinates used in the equatorial coordinate system to give the direction of a point on the celestial sphere.
Meridian, or a meridian line may refer to
Maya may refer to:
In economics, deflation is a decrease in the general price level of goods and services.Robert J.
A market economy is an economic system where decisions regarding investment, production, and distribution are based on the interplay of supply and demand, which determines the prices of goods and services. The major defining characteristic of a market economy is that investment decisions, or the allocation of producer good, are primarily made through capital and financial markets.
Linguistic typology is a field of linguistics that studies and classifies languages according to their structural and functional features. Its aim is to describe and explain the common properties and the structural diversity of the world's languages.
Sucker may refer to:
The Percidae are a family of perciform fish found in fresh and brackish waters of the Northern Hemisphere. The majority are Nearctic, but there are also Palearctic species.
Cirrus  may refer to:
The sunfish are a family (Centrarchidae) of freshwater ray-finned fish belonging to the order Perciformes. The type genus is Centrarchus (consisting solely of the flier, C.
Gadiformes are an order of ray-finned fish, also called the Anacanthini, that includes the cod and its allies. Many major food fish are in this order.
The Sciaenidae are a family of fish commonly called drums or croakers in reference to the repetitive throbbing or drumming sounds they make. The family includes the weakfish, and consists of about 275 species in about 70 genera; it belongs to the order Perciformes.
The Sparidae are a family of fish in the order Perciformes, commonly called sea breams and porgies. The sheepshead, scup, and red seabream are species in this family.
Clupeiformes is the order of ray-finned fish that includes the herring family, Clupeidae, and the anchovy family, Engraulidae. The group includes many of the most important forage and food fish.
The Scombridae family of the mackerels, tunas, and bonitos includes many of the most important and familiar food fishes. The family consists of 51 species in 15 genera and two subfamilies.
The Serranidae are a large family of fishes belonging to the order Perciformes. The family contains about 450 species in 65 genera, including the sea basses and the groupers (subfamily Epinephelinae).
Code talkers are people in the 20th century who used obscure languages as a means of secret communication during wartime. The term is now usually associated with the United States soldiers during the world wars who used their knowledge of Native American languages as a basis to transmit coded messages.
* Esocidae Rafinesque 1815
A sculpin is a type of fish that belongs to the superfamily Cottoidea in the order Scorpaeniformes.Kane, E.
The Scorpaeniformes are a diverse order of ray-finned fish, but have also been called the Scleroparei. It is one of the five largest orders of bony fishes by number of species with over 1,320.
1939
Hooke may refer to:
A lyrebird is either of two species of ground-dwelling Australian birds that compose the genus Menura, and the family Menuridae. They are most notable for their superb ability to mimic natural and artificial sounds from their environment, and the striking beauty of the male bird's huge tail when it is fanned out in courtship display.
SIMSCRIPT II.5 is the latest incarnation of SIMSCRIPT, one of the oldest computer simulation languages.
}}
The atomic radius of a chemical element is a measure of the size of its atoms, usually the mean or typical distance from the center of the nucleus to the boundary of the surrounding cloud of electrons.  Since the boundary is not a well-defined physical entity, there are various non-equivalent definitions of atomic radius.
Kilogram per cubic metre is an SI derived unit of density, defined by mass in kilograms divided by volume in cubic metres. The official SI symbolic abbreviation is kg·m−3, or equivalently either kg/m3 or \tfrac{\text{kg}}{\text{m}^3} \!.
Nucleosynthesis is the process that creates new atomic nuclei from pre-existing nucleons, primarily protons and neutrons. The first nuclei were formed about three minutes after the Big Bang, through the process called Big Bang nucleosynthesis.
}}
thumbnail|250px|alt=Photo shows the six types of chess pieces in the Staunton style.|[[Staunton chess set|Staunton style chess pieces.
thumb|As [[Earth (blue) passes a superior planet, such as Mars (red), the superior planet will temporarily appear to reverse its motion across the sky.]]
The zenith is an imaginary point directly &quot;above&quot; a particular location, on the imaginary celestial sphere. &quot;Above&quot; means in the vertical direction opposite to the apparent gravitational force at that location.
The horizon or skyline is the apparent line that separates earth from sky, the line that divides all visible directions into two categories: those that intersect the Earth's surface, and those that do not. At many locations, the true horizon is obscured by trees, buildings, mountains, etc.
thumb|right|[[George IV of the United Kingdom, who was prince regent while his father was mentally incapable between 1811 and 1820]]
A model is a person with a role either to promote, display or advertise commercial products (notably fashion clothing in fashion shows), or to serve as a visual aide for people who are creating works of art or to pose for photography.
Prince Albert  most commonly refers to:
The Pike's Peak Gold Rush (later known as the Colorado Gold Rush) was the boom in gold prospecting and mining in the Pike's Peak Country of western Kansas Territory and southwestern Nebraska Territory of the United States that began in July 1858 and lasted until roughly the creation of the Colorado Territory on February 28, 1861. An estimated 100,000 gold seekers took part in one of the greatest gold rushes in North American history.
Charles-Camille Saint-Saëns (, traditionally pronounced  in French; (9 October 183516 December 1921) was a French composer, organist, conductor and pianist of the Romantic era. His best-known works include Introduction and Rondo Capriccioso (1863), the Second Piano Concerto (1868), the First Cello Concerto (1872), Danse macabre (1874), the opera Samson and Delilah (1877), the Third Violin Concerto (1880), the Third (&quot;Organ&quot;) Symphony (1886) and The Carnival of the Animals (1886).
Dressage ( or ; a French term, most commonly translated to mean &quot;training&quot;) is a  highly skilled form of riding performed in exhibition and competition, as well as an &quot;art&quot; sometimes pursued solely for the sake of mastery. As an equestrian sport defined by the International Equestrian Federation, dressage is &quot;the highest expression of horse training&quot; where &quot;horse and rider are expected to perform from memory a series of predetermined movements.
Event}}
The American Correctional Association (ACA; called the National Prison Association before 1954) is a private, non-profit, non-governmental trade association and accrediting body for the corrections industry, the oldest and largest such association in the world.  The organization was founded in 1870 and has a significant place in the history of prison reform in the U.
Lobby}}
Lockport may refer to:
A state legislature in the United States is the legislative body of any of the 50 U.S.
Brazoria County ( ) is a county in the U.S.
Clark County is a county in the southwestern part of the U.S.
The Amblyopsidae are a fish family commonly referred to as cavefish, blindfish, or swampfish. They are small freshwater fish found in the dark environments of caves (underground lakes, pools, rivers and streams), springs and swamps in the eastern half of the United States.
Merlucciidae are a family of cod-like fish, including most hakes. available for download at http://www.
–
Washington County is one of 36 counties in the U.S.
Characidae, the characids or characins is a family of freshwater subtropical and tropical fish, belonging to the order Characiformes. The name &quot;characins&quot; is the historical one,Characinae, recently narrowly defined, covers only twelve genera and 79 species closely related to Charax (George M.
Ass may refer to:
A cladogram (from Greek clados &quot;branch&quot; and gramma &quot;character&quot;) is a diagram used in cladistics to show relations among organisms. A cladogram is not, however, an evolutionary tree because it does not show how ancestors are related to descendants, nor does it show how much they have changed; many evolutionary trees can be inferred from a single cladogram.
The game of Go has simple rules that can be learned very quickly but, as with chess and similar board games, complex strategies may be deployed by experienced players.
The history of anatomy  extends from the earliest examinations of sacrificial victims to the sophisticated analyses of the body performed by modern scientists. The study of human anatomy can be traced back thousands of years, at least to the Egyptians, but the science of anatomy, as we know it today, did not develop until far later.
Social justice is the concept of fair and just relation between the individual and society. This is measured by the explicit and tacit terms for the distribution of wealth, opportunities for personal activity and social privileges.
The Arts and Crafts movement was an international movement in the decorative and fine arts that began in Britain and flourished in Europe and North America between about 1880 and 1920, emerging in Japan in the 1920s. It stood for traditional craftsmanship using simple forms, and often used medieval, romantic, or folk styles of decoration.
Quiz bowl (quizbowl, scholar bowl, scholastic bowl, academic bowl, academic team, etc.) is a quiz-based sport that tests players on a wide variety of academic subjects.
A limerick is a form of poetry in five-line, predominantly  meter with a strict rhyme scheme (AABBA), often humorous and sometimes obscene.  The third and fourth lines are shorter than the other three.
}}
__NOTOC__
1.2% of the U.
}}
The Atlantic slave trade or transatlantic slave trade involved the transportation by slave traders of enslaved African people, mainly from Africa to the Americas, and then their sale there. The slave trade used mainly the triangular trade route and its Middle Passage, and existed from the 16th to the 19th centuries.
280px|thumbnail|
Grimm's law (also known as the First Germanic Sound Shift or Rask's rule) is a set of statements named after Jacob Grimm describing the inherited Proto-Indo-European (PIE) stop consonants as they developed in Proto-Germanic (the common ancestor of the Germanic branch of the Indo-European family) in the 1st millennium BC. It establishes a set of regular correspondences between early Germanic stops and fricatives and the stop consonants of certain other centum Indo-European languages (Grimm used mostly Latin and Greek for illustration).
Verner's law, stated by Karl Verner in 1875, describes a historical sound change in the Proto-Germanic language whereby voiceless fricatives *f, *þ, *s, *h, *hʷ, when immediately following an unstressed syllable in the same word, underwent voicing and became the fricatives *β, *ð, *z, *ɣ, *ɣʷ respectively.In Proto-Germanic, voiced fricatives  were allophones of their corresponding voiced plosives  when they occurred between vowels, semivowels and liquids.
Road transport (British English) or road transportation (American English) is the transport of passengers or goods on roads. This transport method can be via bike or automobiles or by animal such as horse or oxen.
The international E-road network is a numbering system for roads in Europe developed by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). The network is numbered from E 1 up and its roads cross national borders.
Propulsion is a means of creating force leading to movement. The term is derived from two Latin words: [meaning before or forward; and pellere], meaning to drive.
An expendable launch system is a launch system that uses an expendable launch vehicle (ELV) to  carry a payload into space.  The vehicles used in expendable launch systems are designed to be used only once (i.
Epigenetics are stable heritable traits (or &quot;phenotypes&quot;) that cannot be explained by changes in DNA sequence. The Greek prefix epi- (ἐπι- &quot;over, outside of, around&quot;) in epigenetics implies features that are &quot;on top of&quot; or &quot;in addition to&quot; the traditional genetic basis for inheritance.
}}
Bokononism () is a fictitious religion invented by Kurt Vonnegut and practiced by many of the characters in his novel Cat's Cradle. Many of the sacred texts of Bokononism were written in the form of calypsos.
right|thumb|Sampler worked by Catharine Ann Speel in silk on linen, 1805, Philadelphia
The Túpac Katari Guerrilla Army (Ejército Guerrillero Túpac Katari) was a Maoist guerrilla movement in Bolivia. Albeit of indigenist inspiration, the movement had a multirracial membership.
Trainer may refer to:
}}
The Aircraft Manufacturing Company Limited (Airco) was a British aircraft manufacturer operating from 1912 to 1920. Airco produced thousands of aircraft for the British military during the First World War, most of which were designed by their chief designer, Geoffrey de Havilland.
(aged 64)
Avalanche chess is a chess variant designed by Ralph Betza in 1977. After moving one of your own pieces, you must move one of your opponent's pawns forward one space.
Pau Casals i Defilló (Catalan: ; December 29, 1876October 22, 1973), also known as Pablo Casals,EMI official web siteHonors To Be Conferred On English Composers: Series of Concerts Devoted to modern Englishmen to be Given in London, The New York Times, 1911-04-09, retrieved 2009-08-01&quot;Pablo Casals – the Musician and the Man&quot; was a cellist, composer, and conductor from Catalonia. He is generally regarded as the pre-eminent cellist of the first half of the 20th century, and one of the greatest cellists of all time.
Airspeed Limited was established to build aeroplanes in 1931 in York, England, by A. H.
A supermodel (also spelled super-model  and super model) is a highly paid fashion model who usually has a worldwide reputation and often a background in haute couture and commercial modeling. The term supermodel became prominent in the popular culture of the 1980s.
The glans penis (or simply glans, )OED 2nd edition, 1989. is the sensitive bulbous structure at the distal end of the human penis.
upright=0.20|thumb|Palette knife used for mixing paint
Libanius (, Libanios; c. 314 – 392 or 393) was a Greek teacher of rhetoric of the Sophist school.
}}
Cox's theorem, named after the physicist Richard Threlkeld Cox, is a derivation of the laws of probability theory from a certain set of postulates. This derivation justifies the so-called &quot;logical&quot; interpretation of probability, as the laws of probability derived by Cox's theorem are applicable to any proposition.
Ohm's law states that the current through a conductor between two points is directly proportional to the voltage across the two points. Introducing the constant of proportionality, the resistance, one arrives at the usual mathematical equation that describes this relationship:
Optical character recognition (also optical character reader, OCR) is the mechanical or electronic conversion of images of typed, handwritten or printed text into machine-encoded text, whether from a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo (for example the text on signs and billboards in a landscape photo) or from subtitle text superimposed on an image (for example from a television broadcast). It is widely used as a form of information entry from printed paper data records, whether passport documents, invoices, bank statements, computerised receipts, business cards, mail, printouts of static-data, or any suitable documentation.
Nintendo 64PlayStationMac OSGame Boy ColorDreamcastPlayStation Network}}
The University of Minnesota system is a public university system with several coordinate campuses spread throughout the U.S.
A vacuum cleaner, also known as a sweeper or hoover, is a device that uses an air pump (a centrifugal fan in all but some of the very oldest models), to create a partial vacuum to suck up dust and dirt, usually from floors, and from other surfaces such as upholstery and draperies.
Sardinian towns
Sanssouci palace, Potsdam New Palace,Dutch Quarter and Filmstudio Babelsberg
Phoenix}}
* genitive
In Greek mythology, Phoenix ( Phoinix, gen.: Φοίνικος Phoinikos), son of Amyntor and Cleobule, is one of the Myrmidons led by Achilles in the Trojan War.
}}
The marathon is a long-distance running race with an official distance of 42.195 kilometres (26.
The Marathon Trilogy is a science fiction first-person shooter video game series from Bungie, originally released for Mac OS. The name Marathon is derived from the giant interstellar colony ship that provides the setting for the first game; the ship is constructed out of what used to be the Martian satellite Deimos.
Decentralization is the process of redistributing or dispersing functions, powers, people or things away from a central location or authority.Definition of decentralization, TheFreeDictionary.
Year 960 (CMLX) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 956 (CMLVI) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 953 (CMLIII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 957 (CMLVII) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 958 (CMLVIII) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Fair trade is a social movement whose stated goal is to help producers in developing countries achieve better trading conditions and to promote sustainable farming. Members of the movement advocate the payment of higher prices to exporters, as well as improved social and environmental standards.
Upper Rhenish Circle
In Homer's Odyssey, Penelope ( ; ) is the wife of Odysseus, who is known for her fidelity to Odysseus while he was absent, despite having many suitors.
thumb|275px|Melodic and harmonic intervals.
In mathematics, a (real) interval is a set of real numbers with the property that any number that lies between two numbers in the set is also included in the set.  For example, the set of all numbers  satisfying  is an interval which contains  and , as well as all numbers between them.
In mathematics, especially group theory, the elements of any group may be partitioned into conjugacy classes; members of the same conjugacy class share many properties, and study of conjugacy classes of non-abelian groups reveals many important features of their structure. For an abelian group, each conjugacy class is a set containing one element (singleton set).
Fuzzy logic is a form of many-valued logic in which the truth values of variables may be any real number between 0 and 1. It is employed to handle the concept of partial truth, where the truth value may range between completely true and completely false.
How the Self Controls Its BrainJohn C. Eccles, How the Self Controls its Brain, Berlin: Springer-Verlag, 1994.
Pope Anacletus (died c. 92), also known as Cletus, was the third Bishop of Rome, following Saint Peter and Pope Linus.
Frauenburg may refer to the following places:
Antiviral drugs are a class of medication used specifically for treating viral infections rather than bacterial ones. Most antivirals are used for specific viral infections, while a broad-spectrum antiviral is effective against a wide range of viruses.
thumb|300px|[[Descartes claimed that non-human animals could be explained reductively as automata — De homine, 1662.]]
Queen Elizabeth 2, often referred to simply as QE2, is an ocean liner built for the Cunard Line which was operated by Cunard as both a transatlantic liner and a cruise ship from 1969 to 2008. She was designed for the transatlantic service from her home port of Southampton, UK, to New York, and was named after the earlier Cunard liner .
A biplane is a fixed-wing aircraft with two main wings stacked one above the other. The first powered, controlled aeroplane to fly, the Wright Flyer, used a biplane wing arrangement, as did many aircraft in the early years of aviation.
A carburetor (American English) or carburettor (British English; see spelling differences) is a device that blends air and fuel for an internal combustion engine in the proper ratio for combustion. It is sometimes colloquially shortened to carb in the UK and North America or carby in Australia.
}}
thumb|Middle C .
frame|Musical staff|right|A typical five-line staff.
Robert H. Goddard (1882–1945) was an American scientist and pioneer of modern rocketry.
}}
St. Hedwig's Cathedral () is a Roman Catholic cathedral on the Bebelplatz in Berlin, Germany.
Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed a large number of other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success.
The Planets, Op. 32, is a seven-movement orchestral suite by the English composer Gustav Holst, written between 1914 and 1916.
NaN3}}
Biological determinism or genetic determinism is the belief that human behavior is controlled by an individual's genes or some component of their physiology, generally at the expense of the role of the environment, whether in embryonic development or in learning.Feminist Frontiers, Ninth Edition, by Taylor, Whittier, and Rupp; How Societies Work, Fourth Edition, by Joanne Naiman It has been associated with movements in science and society including eugenics, scientific racism, the supposed heritability of IQ, the supposed biological basis for gender roles, and the sociobiology debate.
}}
In topology, Urysohn's lemma is a lemma that states that a topological space is normal if and only if any two disjoint closed subsets can be separated by a continuous function. Section 15.
The age of the Earth is approximately 4.54 ± 0.
Digital audio broadcasting (DAB) is a digital radio standard for broadcasting digital audio radio services, used in countries across Europe, the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
border
Corporate personhood is the legal notion that a corporation, separately from its associated human beings (like owners, managers, or employees), has at least some of the legal rights and responsibilities enjoyed by natural persons (physical humans). For example, corporations have the right to enter into contracts with other parties and to sue or be sued in court in the same way as natural persons or unincorporated associations of persons.
thumb|[[Watchtower at the memorial site Buchenwald, in 1983]]
USS Winston S. Churchill (DDG-81) is an  destroyer of the United States Navy.
In physics, the fine-structure constant, also known as Sommerfeld's constant, commonly denoted α (the Greek letter alpha), is a fundamental physical constant characterizing the strength of the electromagnetic interaction between elementary charged particles.  It is related to the elementary charge e, which characterizes the strength of the coupling of an elementary charged particle with the electromagnetic field, by the formula .
Haidinger's brush is an entoptic phenomenon first described by Austrian
Saint Eleutherius}}
}}
In United States law, ripeness refers to the readiness of a case for litigation; &quot;a claim is not ripe for adjudication if it rests upon contingent future events that may not occur as anticipated, or indeed may not occur at all.&quot;Texas v.
}}
}}
Raymond Kanelba (1897–1960), also known as Rajmund Kanelba , was a 20th-century Polish painter.
In mathematics, the unit interval is the closed interval , that is, the set of all real numbers that are greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1.  It is often denoted  (capital letter I).
Houyhnhnms are a race of intelligent horses described in the last part of Jonathan Swift's satirical Gulliver's Travels. The name is pronounced either  or .
right|thumb|The Strait of Juan de Fuca is the wide waterway stretching from the Pacific Ocean on the west to the [[San Juan Islands on the east, with Vancouver Island to the north and the Olympic Peninsula to the south. The Strait of Georgia lies north of the San Juans.
Spellevator is an educational computer game for the Apple II computer, published by MECC (now part of Mattel's The Learning Company). It was one of the first commercial games to use the ProDOS operating system.
Patchwork or &quot;pieced work&quot; is a form of needlework that involves sewing together pieces of fabric into a larger design. The larger design is usually based on repeating patterns built up with different fabric shapes (which can be different colors).
The Needlewoman|other uses|Needleman (disambiguation)}}
Cultural bias is the phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture. The phenomenon is sometimes considered a problem central to social and human sciences, such as economics, psychology, anthropology, and sociology.
Doping may refer to:
harvester's hitch, hay knot, sheepshank cinch, trucker's dolly, wagoner's hitch, power cinch, rope tackle As collected in Documents of the Assembly of the State of New York, 136th Session, 1913, Vol. 19, No.
}}
The thief knot  resembles the reef knot (square knot) except that the free, or bitter ends are on opposite sides.  It is said that sailors would secure their belongings in a ditty bag using the thief knot, often with the ends hidden.
Turner syndrome (TS), also known as 45,X or 45,X0, is a condition in which a female is partly or completely missing an X chromosome. Signs and symptoms vary among those affected.
border
The 1928 Winter Olympics, officially known as the II Olympic Winter Games (French: Les IIes Jeux olympiques d'hiver) (German: Olympische Winterspiele 1928) (Italian: II Giochi olimpici invernali) (Romansch: Gieus olimpics d'enviern 1928), were a winter multi-sport event which was celebrated February 11–19, 1928 in St. Moritz, Switzerland.
Grid computing is the collection of computer resources from multiple locations to reach a common goal. The grid can be thought of as a distributed system with non-interactive workloads that involve a large number of files.
Year 978 (CMLXXVIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 925 (CMXXV) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 929 (CMXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 928 (CMXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 927 (CMXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link 'will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
right|thumb|Deep Blue, at the [[Computer History Museum]]
Year 932 (CMXXXII) was a leap year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Affirmative action, also known as reservation in India and Nepal, positive action in the UK, and employment equity (in a narrower context) in Canada and South Africa, is the policy of favoring members of a disadvantaged group who suffer or have suffered from discrimination within a culture. Historically and internationally, support for affirmative action has sought to achieve goals such as bridging inequalities in employment and pay, increasing access to education, promoting diversity, and redressing apparent past wrongs, harms, or hindrances.
In gardening and agronomic terminology, a volunteer is a plant that grows on its own, rather than being deliberately planted by a farmer or gardener. Volunteers often grow from seeds that float in on the wind, are dropped by birds, or are inadvertently mixed into compost.
* Failed Chinese encirclement of US forces at Chosin Reservoir
The XY sex-determination system is the sex-determination system found in humans, most other mammals, some insects (Drosophila), some snakes, and some plants (Ginkgo). In this system, the sex of an individual is determined by a pair of sex chromosomes (gonosomes).
A window is an opening in a wall, door, roof or vehicle that allows the passage of light, sound, and/or air. Modern windows are usually glazed or covered in some other transparent or translucent material, a sash set in a frame in the opening; the sash and frame are also referred to as a window.
In architecture, a hall is a relatively large space enclosed by a roof and walls.Oxford English Dictionary In the Iron Age, a mead hall was such a simple building and was the residence of a lord and his retainers.
thumb|A walk-in closet in a residential house in the [[United States.]]
A kitchen is a room or part of a room used for cooking and food preparation in a dwelling or in a commercial establishment. In the West, a modern residential kitchen is typically equipped with a stove, a sink with hot and cold running water, a refrigerator, counters and kitchen cabinets arranged according to a modular design.
Gaius Plinius Caecilius Secundus, born Gaius Caecilius or Gaius Caecilius Cilo (61 – c. 113), better known as Pliny the Younger (), was a lawyer, author, and magistrate of Ancient Rome.
A sex-determination system is a biological system that determines the development of sexual characteristics in an organism. Most organisms that create their offspring using sexual reproduction have two sexes.
N-type metal-oxide-semiconductor logic uses n-type field effect transistors (MOSFETs) to implement logic gates and other digital circuits. These nMOS transistors operate by creating an inversion layer in a p-type transistor body.
In biology and ecology, extinction is the end of an organism or of a group of organisms (taxon), normally a species. The moment of extinction is generally considered to be the death of the last individual of the species, although the capacity to breed and recover may have been lost before this point.
thumb|right|CMOS inverter ([[Inverter (logic gate)|NOT logic gate)]]
Differentiable may refer to:
Father Robert Abercromby (1536 – 27 April 1613), whose surname was also spelled as Abrecromby and Abercrombie, and was known by such pseudonyms as Robert Sandiesoun and Sanders Robertson, was a Scottish Jesuit missionary.
In astronomy, a conjunction occurs when two astronomical objects or spacecraft have either the same right ascension or the same ecliptic longitude, usually as observed from Earth.
Religious humanism is an integration of non-theistic humanist ethical philosophy with religious rituals and beliefs that center on human needs, interests, and abilities. Self-described religious humanists differ from secular humanists mainly in that they regard the humanist life stance as their religion and organise using a congregational model.
Racial quotas in employment and education are numerical requirements for hiring, promoting, admitting and/or graduating members of a particular racial group. Racial quotas are often established as means of diminishing racial discrimination, addressing under-representation and evident racism against those racial groups or, the opposite, against the disadvantaged majority group (see numerus clausus or bhumiputra systems).
Horus is one of the most significant ancient Egyptian deities. He was worshipped from at least the late prehistoric Egypt until the Ptolemaic Kingdom and Roman Egypt.
The Bayeux Tapestry or Bayeux Embroidery ( or , ; , , or La telle du conquest; ) is an embroidered cloth nearly  long and  tall, which depicts the events leading up to the Norman conquest of England concerning William, Duke of Normandy, and Harold, Earl of Wessex, later King of England, and culminating in the Battle of Hastings.
Seth (, Hebrew: , Standard Šet, Tiberian Šēṯ; Shīth شِيث, ; &quot;placed; appointed&quot;), in Judaism, Christianity, Mandaeism, and Islam, was the third son of Adam and Eve and brother of Cain and Abel, who were the only other of their children mentioned by name in the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible). According to , Seth was born after Abel's murder, and Eve believed God had appointed him as a replacement for Abel.
Boolean logic is a system of syllogistic logic invented by 19th-century British mathematician George Boole, which attempts to incorporate the &quot;empty set&quot;, that is, a class of non-existent entities, such as round squares, without resorting to uncertain truth values.
Upper and Lower Egypt also referred to as The Two Lands is a name used for Ancient Egypt. The concept appears in titles of Egyptian Kings and Queens and appears in scenes in temple, tombs and the pyramids.
The Osiris myth is the most elaborate and influential story in ancient Egyptian mythology. It concerns the murder of the god Osiris, a primeval king of Egypt, and its consequences.
Rheingold}}
Volatilization is the process whereby a dissolved sample is vaporised. In atomic spectroscopy this is usually a two-step process.
Kings Cross or King's Cross may refer to:
In mathematics, a divisor of an integer n, also called a factor of n, is an integer m that may be multiplied by some other integer to produce n. In this case one says also that n is a multiple of m.
In mathematics, Pascal's triangle is a triangular array of the binomial coefficients. In much of the Western world, it is named after French mathematician Blaise Pascal, although other mathematicians studied it centuries before him in India,Maurice Winternitz, History of Indian Literature, Vol.
Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) is a type of mass spectrometry which is capable of detecting metals and several non-metals at concentrations as low as one part in 1015 (part per quadrillion, ppq) on non-interfered low-background isotopes. This is achieved by ionizing the sample with inductively coupled plasma and then using a mass spectrometer to separate and quantify those ions.
Bernhard von Reesen (born ca. 1490) was an art collector born to a patrician family in Danzig (Gdańsk), in Polish Royal Prussia.
Transportation refers to the movement of people and goods from place to place.
}}}}
Jula refers to:
Scale}}
The Baen Free Library is a digital library of the science fiction and fantasy publishing house Baen Books where 61 e-books as of June 2016 (112 e-books as of December 2008) can be downloaded free in a number of formats, without copy protection.Free Library - Categories Baen Books Science Fiction and Fantasy Retrieved June 8, 2016.
)
A thought experiment (, Gedanken experimentSee occurrences on Google Books. or Gedankenerfahrung) considers some hypothesis, theory,&quot;[C]onjectures or hypotheses ...
In computing, a hyperlink, or simply a link, is a reference to data that the reader can directly follow either by clicking, tapping, or hovering. A hyperlink points to a whole document or to a specific element within a document.
}}
thumb|250px|[[Half Dome, a granite monolith in Yosemite National Park and part of the Sierra Nevada Batholith]]
A castle (from ) is a type of fortified structure built in Europe and the Middle East during the Middle Ages by European nobility. Scholars debate the scope of the word castle, but usually consider it to be the private fortified residence of a lord or noble.
,
Montgomery may refer to:
In probability theory and statistics, Bayes’ theorem (alternatively Bayes’ law or Bayes' rule) describes the probability of an event, based on prior knowledge of conditions that might be related to the event. For example, if cancer is related to age, then, using Bayes’ theorem, a person’s age can be used to more accurately assess the probability that they have cancer, compared to the assessment of the probability of cancer made without knowledge of the person's age.
Bayesian inference is a method of statistical inference in which Bayes' theorem is used to update the probability for a hypothesis as more evidence or information becomes available. Bayesian inference is an important technique in statistics, and especially in mathematical statistics.
Hooliganism is disruptive or unlawful behavior such as rioting, bullying, and vandalism.
The Battle of Lewes was one of two main battles of the conflict known as the Second Barons' War. It took place at Lewes in Sussex, on 14 May 1264.
Link awareness is defined as the ability to discover, view, search and update global hyperlink information about any resource with a URL on the World Wide Web.  This global link information is a shared information resource.
A fortune cookie is a crisp cookie usually made from flour, sugar, vanilla, and sesame seed oil with a piece of paper inside, a &quot;fortune&quot;, on which is an aphorism, or a vague prophecy. The message inside may also include a Chinese phrase with translation and/or a list of lucky numbers used by some as lottery numbers, some of which have become actual winning numbers.
Candiru (English and Portuguese or candirú in Spanish), Vandellia cirrhosa, also known as cañero, toothpick fish, or vampire fish, is a species of parasitic freshwater catfish in the family Trichomycteridae native to the Amazon Basin where it is found in the countries of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru.
Devil ForrestWizard of the Saddle
A pigment is a material that changes the color of reflected or transmitted light as the result of wavelength-selective absorption. This physical process differs from fluorescence, phosphorescence, and other forms of luminescence, in which a material emits light.
Mantophasmatidae  is a family of carnivorous insects within the order Notoptera, which was discovered in Africa in 2001.K.
Jargon is a type of language that is used in a particular context and may not be well understood outside that context. The context is usually a particular occupation (that is, a certain trade, profession, or academic field), but any ingroup can have jargon.
300px|right|Map of the Bay of Biscay
English grammar is the way in which meanings are encoded into wordings in the English language. This includes the structure of words, phrases, clauses, and sentences, right up to the structure of whole texts.
Wii U Virtual Console
The New York Sun was an American daily newspaper published in Manhattan from 2002 to 2008. It debuted on April 16, 2002, adopting the name, motto, and masthead of the earlier New York paper, The Sun (1833–1950).
Suspension}}
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
In computing, the SEX assembly language mnemonic has often been used for the &quot;Sign EXtend&quot; machine instruction found in the Motorola 6809. A computer's or CPU's &quot;sex&quot; can also mean the endianness of the computer architecture used.
This list of castles in England is not a list of every building and site that has &quot;castle&quot; as part of its name, nor does it list only buildings that conform to a strict definition of a castle as a medieval fortified residence.Brown (1962), p.
Franz Krienbühl (24 March 1929 – 16 April 2002) was a Swiss speed skater who is mostly known for his inventions that changed the sport.
Jean Sibelius (; ), born Johan Julius Christian Sibelius: only in the 1990s was it discovered that Sibelius's original first names (at christening) were Johan Christian Julius; he himself used the order Johan Julius Christian, and that is present in most sources. (8 December 186520 September 1957), was a Finnish composer and violinist of the late Romantic and early-modern periods.
Black Banner}}
A sophist (, sophistes) was a specific kind of teacher in Ancient Greece, in the fifth and fourth centuries BC. Many sophists specialized in using the tools of philosophy and rhetoric, though other sophists taught subjects such as music, athletics, and mathematics.
The Treaty of Portsmouth formally ended the 1904–05 Russo-Japanese War. It was signed on September 5, 1905&quot;Text of Treaty; Signed by the Emperor of Japan and Czar of Russia&quot;, The New York Times.
Dover is a port town in Kent, in South East England.
Salem may refer to:
An aurora, sometimes referred to as a polar lights or northern lights, is a natural light display in the sky, predominantly seen in the high latitude (Arctic and Antarctic) regions.}} Auroras are produced when the magnetosphere is sufficiently disturbed by the solar wind that the trajectories of charged particles in both solar wind and magnetospheric plasma, mainly in the form of electrons and protons,  precipitate them into the upper atmosphere (thermosphere/exosphere), where their energy is lost.
Newark most commonly refers to:
Stratford is commonly used as both a family name and a place name as follows:
__NOTOC__
€6,058.4 million (2016)
No contest may refer to:
Sequoyah (1767–1843) was the inventor of the Cherokee syllabary.
Redwood is a common name for a group of coniferous trees.
Aurora was a rumored mid-1980s American reconnaissance aircraft. There is no substantial evidence that it was ever built or flown and it has been termed a myth.
Groom Lake is a salt flat in Nevada used for runways of the Nellis Bombing Range Test Site airport (KXTA). It is located immediately north of the Area 51 USAF installation.
Canadian raising is an allophonic rule of phonology in many dialects of North American English that changes the pronunciation of diphthongs with open-vowel starting points. Most commonly, the shift affects  or , or both, when they are pronounced before voiceless consonants (therefore, in words like price and clout, respectively, but not in prize and cloud).
In computer science and information science, an ontology is a formal naming and definition of the types, properties, and interrelationships of the entities that really or fundamentally exist for a particular domain of discourse. It is thus a practical application of philosophical ontology, with a taxonomy.
Robert Blake (or variants) may refer to:
Numeral may refer to:
Anemoi § Auster|other uses}}
Hansa may refer to:
}}
Aviation Traders Limited (ATL) was a war-surplus aircraft and spares trader formed in 1947. In 1949, it began maintaining aircraft used by some of Britain's contemporary independent airlines on the Berlin Airlift.
In electromagnetics, an antenna's power gain or simply gain is a key performance number which combines the antenna's directivity and electrical efficiency.  In a transmitting antenna, the gain describes how well the antenna converts input power into radio waves headed in a specified direction.
Legendre}}
Sussex County}}
The 2050s is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2050 and will end on December 31, 2059.
2015 was designated as:
The 22nd century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2200 BC to 2101 BC.
A programmable read-only memory (PROM) or field programmable read-only memory (FPROM) or one-time programmable non-volatile memory (OTP NVM) is a form of digital memory where the setting of each bit is locked by a fuse or antifuse.  It is one type of ROM (read-only memory).
In physics, the Poynting vector represents the directional energy flux (the energy transfer per unit area per unit time) of an electromagnetic field. The SI unit of the Poynting vector is the watt per square metre (W/m2).
In computing, a core dump (in Unix parlance), memory dump, or system dump  consists of the recorded state of the working memory of a computer program at a specific time, generally when the program has crashed or otherwise terminated abnormally.  In practice, other key pieces of program state are usually dumped at the same time, including the processor registers, which may include the program counter and stack pointer, memory management information, and other processor and operating system flags and information.
In a computer language, a reserved word (also known as a reserved identifier) is a word that cannot be used as an identifier, such as the name of a variable, function, or label – it is &quot;reserved from use&quot;. This is a syntactic definition, and a reserved word may have no meaning.
Early Holocene – present
In mathematics, an alternating group is the group of even permutations of a finite set. The alternating group on a set of n elements is called the alternating group of degree n, or the alternating group on n letters and denoted by An or Alt(n).
In mathematics, when X is a finite set of at least two elements, the permutations of X (i.e.
The Australia Group is an informal group of countries (now joined by the European Commission) established in 1985 (after the use of chemical weapons by Iraq in 1984) to help member countries to identify those exports which need to be controlled so as not to contribute to the spread of chemical and biological weapons.
Ballet  () is a type of performance dance that originated in the Italian Renaissance courts of the 15th century and later developed into a concert dance form in France and Russia. It has since become a widespread, highly technical form of dance with its own vocabulary based on French terminology.
Trade credit is the credit extended by one trader to another for the purchase of goods and services. Trade credit facilitates the purchase of supplies without immediate payment.
Arms control is a term for international restrictions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation and usage of small arms, conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction.  Arms control is typically exercised through the use of diplomacy which seeks to impose such limitations upon consenting participants through international treaties and agreements, although it may also comprise efforts by a nation or group of nations to enforce limitations upon a non-consenting country.
Pole may refer to:
Quick may refer to:
Down and Out in Paris and London is the first full-length work by the English author George Orwell, published in 1933. It is a memoirBack cover description, Down and Out in Paris and London, Penguin Classics, 2001  in two parts on the theme of poverty in the two cities.
A mail bomb on display at the [[National Postal Museum|thumb]]
Punched tape or perforated paper tape is a form of data storage, consisting of a long strip of paper in which holes are punched to store data. Now effectively obsolete, it was widely used during much of the twentieth century for teleprinter communication, for input to computers of the 1950s and 1960s, and later as a storage medium for minicomputers and CNC machine tools.
}}
Friendship books (also known as &quot;FBs&quot; in their abbreviated form) are small booklets made by stapling paper together, or are sometimes just sheets or strips of paper. They are usually decorated and the person who starts the book writes their name and address as the first person sending the book.
In finance, a high-yield bond (non-investment-grade bond, speculative-grade bond, or junk bond) is a bond that is rated below investment grade. These bonds have a higher risk of default or other adverse credit events, but typically pay higher yields than better quality bonds in order to make them attractive to investors.
Decatur may refer to:
Amherst may refer to:
Lawrenceville is the name of several places:
Lexington may refer to:
Mount Vernon is the Virginia estate of George Washington, the first President of the United States.
Pasadena is a city in Los Angeles County, California, United States.
}}
Warren often refers to:
A microclimate is a local set of atmospheric conditions that differ from those in the surrounding areas, often with a slight difference but sometimes with a substantial one. The term may refer to areas as small as a few square meters or square feet (for example a garden bed or a cave) or as large as many square kilometers or square miles.
Richard Aldington (8 July 1892 – 27 July 1962), born Edward Godfree Aldington, was an English writer and poet.
Rod, Ród, Rőd, Rød, Röd, ROD, or R.O.
Beat or beats may refer to:
Action may refer to:
Pope Zephyrinus (21 October 160 - 20 December 217) was Bishop of Rome or Pope from 199 to his death in 217.Kirsch, Johann Peter (1912).
IBM PC compatible computers are those similar to the original IBM PC, XT, and AT, able to run the same software and support the same expansion cards as those. Such computers used to be referred to as PC clones, or IBM clones.
A variety of measures of national income and output are used in economics to estimate total economic activity in a country or region, including gross domestic product (GDP), gross national product (GNP), net national income (NNI), and adjusted national income (NNI* adjusted for natural resource depletion). All are specially concerned with counting the total amount of goods and services produced within some the economy and by different sectors.
USS Oregon (BB-3) was a pre-dreadnought  of the United States Navy. Her construction was authorized on 30 June 1890, and the contract to build her was awarded to Union Iron Works of San Francisco, California on 19 November 1890.
Avro was a British aircraft manufacturer founded in 1910 whose designs include the Avro 504 used as a trainer in the First World War, the Avro Lancaster, one of the pre-eminent bombers of the Second World War, and the delta wing Avro Vulcan, a stalwart of the Cold War.
Two ships of the United States Navy have borne the name USS Salt Lake City, in honor of the city in Utah which has served successively as the capital of the Provisional State of Deseret, the Utah Territory, and the 45th state.  See Salt Lake City, Utah.
__NOTOC__
The gross world product (GWP) is the combined gross national product of all the countries in the world. Because imports and exports balance exactly when considering the whole world, this also equals the total global gross domestic product (GDP).
__NOTOC__
In probability, and statistics, a multivariate random variable or random vector is a list of mathematical variables each of whose value is unknown, either because the value has not yet occurred or because there is imperfect knowledge of its value.  The individual variables in a random vector are grouped together because they are all part of a single mathematical system — often they represent different properties of an individual statistical unit.
thumb|Road sign in [[Antillean Creole|Guadeloupe Creole meaning Slow down. Children are playing here.
An arcade game or coin-op is a coin-operated entertainment machine typically installed in public businesses such as restaurants, bars and amusement arcades. Most arcade games are video games, pinball machines, electro-mechanical games, redemption games or merchandisers.
In an optical fiber, the material dispersion coefficient, M(λ), characterizes the amount of pulse broadening by material dispersion per unit length of fiber and per unit of spectral width. It is usually expressed in picoseconds per (nanometre·kilometre).
A light pen is a computer input device in the form of a light-sensitive wand used in conjunction with a computer's CRT display.
In telecommunication, a n-ary code is a code that has n significant conditions, where n is a positive integer greater than 1.   The integer substituted for n indicates the specific number of significant conditions, i.
Ogg may refer to:
RealMedia is a proprietary multimedia container format created by RealNetworks. Its extension is &quot;.
A keyboard instrument is a musical instrument played using a keyboard, a row of levers which are pressed by the fingers. The most common of these are the piano, organ, and various electronic keyboards, including synthesizers and digital pianos.
Local Exchange Carrier (LEC) is a regulatory term in telecommunications for the local telephone company.
Lilliput may refer to:
thumb|The [[red kangaroo is the largest macropod and is one of Australia's heraldic animals,Egerton, p. 44.
Laputa is a flying island described in the 1726 book Gulliver's Travels by Jonathan Swift. It is about 4.
The Abbadies dynasty or Abbadies (Arabic,بنو عباد) was an Arab Muslim Dynasty which arose in Al-Andalus on the downfall of the Caliphate of Cordoba (756–1031). After the collapse, there were multiple small Muslim &quot;Caliphates&quot;: the Hammudids, the Zayrids, the Jahwarids, the Dhul-Nunids, the Amirids, the Tojibids, and the Hudids.
()  ()
The areca nut ( or ) is the seed of the areca palm (Areca catechu), which grows in much of the tropical Pacific (Melanesia and Micronesia), Southeast and South Asia, and parts of east Africa. This seed is commonly referred to as betel nut so it is easily confused with betel (Piper betle) leaves that are often used to wrap it (paan).
The standard enthalpy of formation or standard heat of formation of a compound is the change of enthalpy during the formation of 1 mole of the substance from its constituent elements, with all substances in their standard states, and at a pressure of 1 bar (100 kPa). There is no standard temperature.
Herring are forage fish, mostly belonging to the family Clupeidae.
The Socratic method, also known as maieutics, method of elenchus, elenctic method, or Socratic debate, is a form of cooperative argumentative dialogue between individuals, based on asking and answering questions to stimulate critical thinking and to draw out ideas and underlying presumptions. It is a dialectical method, often involving a discussion in which the defense of one point of view is questioned; one participant may lead another to contradict themselves in some way, thus weakening the defender's point.
In spiritual terminology, piety is a virtue that may include religious devotion, spirituality, or a mixture of both. A common element in most conceptions of piety is humility and religiosity.
Courage (also called bravery or valour) is the choice and willingness to confront agony, pain, danger, uncertainty, or intimidation. Physical courage is bravery in the face of physical pain, hardship, death or threat of death, while moral courage is the ability to act rightly in the face of popular opposition, shame, scandal, discouragement, or personal loss.
Virtue (,  &quot;arete&quot;) is moral excellence. A virtue is a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being.
Scoti or Scotti was a name used by Late Roman authors for the Irish. Scotland was named after Irish settlers from the 5th century on.
Alba is the Scottish Gaelic name for Scotland.
The Last Man is a post-apocalyptic science fiction novel by Mary Shelley, which was first published in 1826. The book tells of a future world that has been ravaged by a plague.
The Transmigration of Timothy Archer is a 1982 novel by American writer Philip K. Dick.
Ukonline was a &quot;portal&quot; website of the UK Government linking to public sector information, and was originally called me.gov.
Elizabeth  Jennings CBE (18 July 1926 – 26 October 2001) was an English poet.
Anarcho-syndicalism (also referred to as revolutionary syndicalism)Revolutionary syndicalism, Encyclopædia Britannica is a theory of anarchism which views  revolutionary industrial unionism or syndicalism as a method for workers in capitalist society to gain control of an economy and, with that control, influence broader society. Syndicalists consider their economic theories a strategy for facilitating worker self-activity and as an alternative co-operative economic system with democratic values and production centered on meeting human needs.
Aaron's rod refers to any of the staves carried by Moses's brother, Aaron, in the Torah.  The Bible tells how, along with Moses's rod, Aaron's rod was endowed with miraculous power during the Plagues of Egypt that preceded the Exodus.
Theurgy (; from Greek θεουργία, Theourgia) describes the practice of rituals, sometimes seen as magical in nature,  performed with the intention of invoking the action or evoking the presence of one or more gods, especially with the goal of achieving henosis (uniting with the divine) and perfecting oneself.
The Gododdin () were a P-Celtic speaking Brittonic people of north-eastern Britannia, the area known as the Hen Ogledd or Old North (modern south-east Scotland and north-east England), in the sub-Roman period.  Descendants of the Votadini, they are best known as the subject of the 6th-century Welsh poem Y Gododdin, which memorialises the Battle of Catraeth and is attributed to Aneirin.
A bra (common form of brassiere) is a woman's undergarment designed to support the breasts.
Prudence (, contracted from  meaning &quot;seeing ahead, sagacity&quot;) is the ability to govern and discipline oneself by the use of reason.Prudence - Definition and More from the Free Merriam-Webster Dictionary.
Malay may refer to:
Balinese may refer to:
German
Diego de Nicuesa (died 1511) was a Spanish conquistador and explorer.
Bartholomaeus Schwartz (latinised to Bartholomaeus Nigrinus) (1595–1646) was pastor of the St. Peter and St.
None  Carlos Ruckauf
Leopolis may refer to:
Rosicrucianism was a cultural movement which arose in Europe in the early 17th century after the publication of several texts which purported to announce the existence of a hitherto unknown esoteric order to the world and made seeking its knowledge attractive to many.Yates, Frances A.
Handbook of Mineralogy
right|thumb|First edition cover
Stoic may refer to:
thumb|Allegory of hope; oil on canvas, [[Francesco Guardi, 1747]]
}}
Apostasy (;  apostasia, &quot;a defection or revolt&quot;) is the formal disaffiliation from, or abandonment or renunciation of a religion by a person. It can also be defined within the broader context of embracing an opinion contrary to one's previous beliefs.
Lust is a strong emotion or feeling. The lust can take any form such as the lust for sex, lust for expensive objects (extravagance) or the lust for power.
__NOTOC__
The Bay of Pigs (Spanish: Bahía de Cochinos) is an inlet of the Gulf of Cazones located on the southern coast of Cuba. By 1910, it was included in Santa Clara Province, and then instead to Las Villas Province by 1961, but in 1976, it was reassigned to Matanzas Province, when the original six provinces of Cuba were re-organized into 14 new Provinces of Cuba.
La Salle County refers to one of several counties in the United States:
The word squat, squatter or squatting can refer to:
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 1 BC was a common year starting on Friday or Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar (the sources differ, see leap year error for further information) and a leap year starting on Thursday of the Proleptic Julian calendar. It is also a leap year starting on Saturday, in the Proleptic Gregorian calendar.
The 23rd century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2300 BC to 2201 BC.
The Lockheed Corporation (originally the Loughead Aircraft Manufacturing Company) was an American aerospace company. Lockheed was founded in 1912 and later merged with Martin Marietta to form Lockheed Martin in 1995.
Rainforests are forests characterized by high rainfall, with annual rainfall in the case of tropical rainforests between ,The Tropical Rain Forest. Marietta College.
thumb|260px|Areas of polar climate according to Köppen classification.
thumb|right|400px|Subarctic climate worldwide
In geography, temperate or tepid latitudes of Earth lie between the tropics and the polar regions. These regions generally have more variety in temperature over the course of the year and more distinct changes between seasons compared with tropical climates, where such variations are often more moderate.
Adam Wiśniewski-Snerg (January 1, 1937 - August 30, 1995) was a Polish science fiction author. He was born in Płock, Poland.
)
Opera buffa (; plural: opere buffe; Italian for &quot;comic opera&quot;) is a genre of opera. It was first used as an informal description of Italian comic operas variously classified by their authors as commedia in musica, commedia per musica, dramma bernesco, dramma comico, divertimento giocoso.
*Bos
}}
Franklin County may refer to places:
John Beaufort, Marquess of Dorset  John Courtenay, Earl of Devon John, Lord Wenlock  Margaret of Anjou Edward, Prince of Wales
John Neville, Marquess of Montagu  Henry Holland, Duke of Exeter  John de Vere, Earl of Oxford
Chemical warfare (CW) involves using the toxic properties of chemical substances as weapons. This type of warfare is distinct from nuclear warfare and biological warfare, which together make up NBC, the military acronym for nuclear, biological, and chemical (warfare or weapons), all of which are considered &quot;weapons of mass destruction&quot; (WMDs).
String instruments, stringed instruments, or chordophones are musical instruments that produce sound from vibrating strings when the performer plays or sounds the strings in some manner.
The Pulitzer Prize for History, administered by Columbia University, is one of the seven American Pulitzer Prizes that are annually awarded for Letters, Drama, and Music. It has been presented since 1917 for a distinguished book about the history of the United States.
}}
Jaxon modulation is a modulation system for placing information on a bitstream generated by a finite generator.
A bitstream (or bit stream), also known as binary sequence, is a sequence of bits.
__NOTOC__
A journalist is a person who collects, writes, or distributes news or other current information to the public. A journalist's work is called journalism.
A zebu (,  or ; Bos primigenius indicus or Bos indicus or Bos taurus indicus), sometimes known as indicine cattle or humped cattle, is a species or subspecies of domestic cattle originating in the Indian subcontinent. Zebu are characterised by a fatty hump on their shoulders, a large dewlap, and sometimes drooping ears.
An autocracy is a system of government in which supreme power is concentrated in the hands of one person, whose decisions are subject to neither external legal restraints nor regularized mechanisms of popular control (except perhaps for the implicit threat of a coup d'état or mass insurrection). Absolute monarchy (such as Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Oman) and dictatorship are the main historical forms of autocracy.
The cornett, cornetto, or zink is an early wind instrument that dates from the Medieval, Renaissance and Baroque periods, popular from 1500 to 1650. It was used in what are now called alta capellas or wind ensembles.
The Third Council of Constantinople, counted as the Sixth Ecumenical CouncilContinuity and Change in Creed and Confessions, Credo: Historical and Theological Guide to Creeds and Confessions of Faith, ed. Jaroslav Pelikan (Yale University Press, 2013), 15.
Surplus}}
The prosecutor's fallacy is a fallacy of statistical reasoning, typically used by the prosecution to argue for the guilt of a defendant during a criminal trial. Although it is named after prosecutors it is not specific to them, and some variants of the fallacy can be used by defense lawyers arguing for the innocence of their client.
The Longitude rewards refer to the system of inducement prizes offered by the British government as a simple and practical method for the precise determination of a ship's longitude at sea.  The rewards, established through an Act of Parliament (the Longitude Act) in 1714, were administered by the Board of Longitude.
Cambrian – Recent
right|thumb|300px|The depraved inhabitants of a tavern, from a nineteenth-century temperance play.
Pizzicato (;  , translated as pinched, and sometimes roughly as plucked)
V5 or V-5 may be:
Squash may refer to:
In the context of royalty, a morganatic marriage, sometimes called a left-handed marriage is a marriage between people of unequal social rank, which prevents the passage of the husband's titles and privileges to the wife and any children born of the marriage.
}}
Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency is a humorous detective novel by Douglas Adams, first published in 1987. It is described by the author on its cover as a &quot;thumping good detective-ghost-horror-who dunnit-time travel-romantic-musical-comedy-epic&quot;.
Wilberforce may refer to:
A prime meridian is a meridian (a line of longitude) in a geographical coordinate system at which longitude is defined to be 0°. Together, a prime meridian and its antimeridian (the 180th meridian in a 360°-system) form a great circle.
}}
Edmund, Earl of Rutland Richard Neville, Earl of Salisbury
Henry Holland, Duke of Exeter  Sir Andrew Trollope
Sugar beet is a plant whose root contains a high concentration of sucrose and which is grown commercially for sugar production. In plant breeding it is known as the Altissima cultivar group of the common beet (Beta vulgaris).
Presence, Led Zeppelin, Atlantic Records, R2-547435, Super Deluxe Edition Box, 2014 Liner Notes, page 3
peoples
Nicholas II may refer to:
Steal This Book is a book written by Abbie Hoffman. Written in 1970 and published in 1971, the book exemplified the counterculture of the sixties.
Domain (disambiguation)}}
In mathematics, the codomain or target set of a function is the set  into which all of the output of the function is constrained to fall. It is the set  in the notation .
A world's fair, world fair, world exposition, or universal exposition (sometimes expo or Expo for short) is a large international exhibition designed to showcase achievements of nations. These exhibitions vary in character and are held in different parts of the world.
New York World's Fair may refer to:
The operas listed cover all important genres, and include all operas regularly performed today, from seventeenth-century works by Monteverdi, Cavalli, and Purcell to late twentieth-century operas by Messiaen, Berio, Glass, Adams, Birtwistle, and Weir. The brief accompanying notes offer an explanation as to why each opera has been considered important.
Star Trek: The Next Generation is an American science fiction television series which aired in syndication from September 1987 through May 1994. It is the second live action series of the Star Trek franchise, and comprises a total of 178 episodes over seven seasons.
(early version)April 30, 1938 (official version)July 27, 1940
Year 977 (CMLXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 973 (CMLXXIII) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The Colorado River is the principal river of the southwestern United States and northwest Mexico.
Symmetric multiprocessing (SMP) involves a multiprocessor computer hardware and software architecture where two or more identical processors are connected to a single, shared main memory, have full access to all I/O devices, and are controlled by a single operating system instance that treats all processors equally, reserving none for special purposes. Most multiprocessor systems today use an SMP architecture.
SMP may refer to:
Polari (or alternatively Parlare, Parlary, Palare, Palarie, Palari; from Italian , &quot;to talk&quot;) is a form of cant slang used in Britain by some actors, circus and fairground showmen, professional wrestlers, merchant navy sailors, criminals, prostitutes, and the gay subculture. There is some debate about its origins, but it can be traced back to at least the 19th century and possibly the 16th century.
Julian and Sandy were characters on the BBC radio comedy programme Round the Horne from 1965 to 1968 and were played by Hugh Paddick and Kenneth Williams respectively, with scripts written by Barry Took and Marty Feldman. According to a BBC Radio 4 programme on the characters, they were named after the writers Sandy Wilson and Julian Slade.
Hormizd}}
Cognitive Neuroscience}}
The notion of communication complexity was introduced by Yao in 1979,
levulose,Levulose comes from the Latin word laevus, levo, &quot;left side&quot;, levulose is the old word for the most occurring isomer of fructose. D-fructose rotate plane-polarised light to the left, hence the name.
Rauni may mean:
right|thumb|300px|A restored pioneer house at the [[National Ranching Heritage Center in Lubbock, Texas，USA.]]
Urban design is the process of designing and shaping cities, towns and villages. In contrast to architecture, which focuses on the design of individual buildings, urban design deals with the larger scale of groups of buildings, streets and public spaces, whole neighborhoods and districts, and entire cities, with the goal of making urban areas functional, attractive, and sustainable.
\, e^{ -\frac{1}{2}(\mathbf{x} - \boldsymbol\mu)'\boldsymbol\Sigma^{-1}(\mathbf{x} - \boldsymbol\mu) },exists only when Σ is positive-definite
The precautionary principle (or precautionary approach) to risk management states that if an action or policy has a suspected risk of causing harm to the public, or to the environment, in the absence of scientific consensus (that the action or policy is not harmful), the burden of proof that it is not harmful falls on those taking that action.
Informed consent is a process for getting permission before conducting a healthcare intervention on a person. A health care provider may ask a patient to consent to receive therapy before providing it, or a clinical researcher may ask a research participant before enrolling that person into a clinical trial.
Year 975 (CMLXXV) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
A larva (plural larvae ) is a distinct juvenile form many  animals undergo before metamorphosis into adults. Animals with indirect development such as insects, amphibians, or cnidarians typically have a larval phase of their life cycle.
Lambert Simnel (c. 1477 – c.
(O.S.
In the history of cryptography,  or , codenamed Purple by the United States, was a diplomatic cryptographic machine used by the Japanese Foreign Office just before and during World War II. The machine was an electromechanical stepping-switch device using a 6 X 25 substitution table.
An internet relationship is a relationship between people who have met online, and in many cases know each other only via the Internet. Online relationships are similar in many ways to pen pal relationships.
Dragonflight is a science fiction novel by the American-Irish author Anne McCaffrey. It is the first book in the Dragonriders of Pern series.
The National Association for Research &amp; Therapy of Homosexuality (NARTH), also known as the NARTH Institute, is a US organization that offers conversion therapy and other regimens that purport to change the sexual orientation of people with same-sex attraction. NARTH has been described by a Christian ministry group as a ministry partner that is &quot;a multi-disciplinary professional and scientific organization dedicated to the service of persons who experience unwanted homosexual (same-sex) attractions (SSA)&quot;.
Containerization is a system of intermodal freight transport using intermodal containers (also called shipping containers and ISO containers). The containers have standardized dimensions.
The cerebellum (Latin for &quot;little brain&quot;) is a major feature of the hindbrain of all vertebrates.  Although usually smaller than the cerebrum, in some animals such as the mormyrid fishes it may be as large as or even larger.
A kiss is the touch or pressing of one's lips against another person or an object. Cultural connotations of kissing vary widely.
Dream interpretation is the process of assigning meaning to dreams. In many ancient societies, such as those of Egypt and Greece, dreaming was considered a supernatural communication or a means of divine intervention, whose message could be interpreted by people with these associated spiritual powers.
Clergy are some of the main and important formal leaders within certain religions.  The roles and functions of clergy vary in different religious traditions but these usually involve presiding over specific rituals and teaching their religion's doctrines and practices.
Post-Keynesian economics is a school of economic thought with its origins in The General Theory of John Maynard Keynes, with subsequent development influenced to a large degree by Michał Kalecki, Joan Robinson, Nicholas Kaldor, Paul Davidson, Piero Sraffa and Jan Kregel.  Historian Robert Skidelsky argues that the post-Keynesian school has remained closest to the spirit of Keynes' original work.
Computer engineering is a discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to  develop computer hardware and software. Computer engineers usually have training in electronic engineering (or electrical engineering), software design, and hardware-software integration instead of only software engineering or electronic engineering.
In mathematics, differential calculus is a subfield of calculus concerned with the study of the rates at which quantities change. It is one of the two traditional divisions of calculus, the other being integral calculus.
The year 536 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 218  Ab urbe condita.
The quantum Hall effect (or integer quantum Hall effect) is a quantum-mechanical version of the Hall effect, observed in two-dimensional electron systems subjected to low temperatures and strong magnetic fields, in which the Hall conductance σ undergoes quantum Hall transitions to take on the quantized values
Colloquial Finnish (suomen puhekieli) is the standard colloquial dialect of the Finnish language. It is spoken in the Greater Helsinki region, and in urbanized areas in the Tavastian and Central Finland dialectal areas, such as the cities of Tampere, Jyväskylä, Lahti, Hyvinkää, and Hämeenlinna.
Unless otherwise noted, statements in this article refer to Standard Finnish, which is based on the dialect spoken in the former Häme Province in central south Finland. Standard Finnish is used by professional speakers, such as reporters and news presenters on television.
This article deals with the grammar of the Finnish language (the article Finnish language discusses the language in general and contains a quick overview of the grammar). For the ways in which the spoken language differs from the written language, see Colloquial Finnish. Unlike the languages spoken in neighbouring countries, such as Swedish and Norwegian, which are North Germanic languages, Finnish is a Uralic language, and is typologically between fusional and agglutinative languages.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 974 (CMLXXIV) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 970 (CMLXX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The Gang of Four () was a political faction composed of four Chinese Communist Party officials. They came to prominence during the Cultural Revolution (1966–76) and were later charged with a series of treasonous crimes.
Year 971 (CMLXXI) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Stone of Destiny may refer to:
Nectar, in its most common modern use, refers to the sugar-rich liquid produced by the flowers of plants in order to attract pollinating animals.
Republic of Afghanistan (1987–92)
Hybris, also known as Snow White, Vecna.22528, and Full Moon, is a computer worm believed to be written by Brazilian virus writer Vecna, member of the computer virus writing group 29A.
The Edict of Nantes (French: édit de Nantes), signed in April 1598 by King Henry IV of France, granted the Calvinist Protestants of France (also known as Huguenots) substantial rights in the nation, which was still considered essentially Catholic at the time. In the edict, Henry aimed primarily to promote civil unity.
(Ross 1903)
}}
In architecture,  a gargoyle () is a carved or formed grotesque with a spout designed to convey water from a roof and away from the side of a building, thereby preventing rainwater from running down masonry walls and eroding the mortar between. Architects often used multiple gargoyles on buildings to divide the flow of rainwater off the roof to minimize the potential damage from a rainstorm.
Martial law is the imposition of direct military control of normal civilian functions of government, especially in response to a temporary emergency such as invasion or major disaster, or in an occupied territory.
The following is a list of business schools in Canada organized by province.
A flood is an overflow of water that submerges land that is usually dry.MSN Encarta Dictionary, Flood, Retrieved on 2006-12-28, Archived on 2009-10-31 The European Union (EU) Floods Directive defines a flood as a  covering by water of land not normally covered by water.
}}
)
Oklahoma Indian Affairs Commission. 2010: 6 and 37.
[John Newton.]
}}
A donkey is the offspring of a male donkey (jack) and a female horse (mare). Horses and donkeys are different species, with different numbers of chromosomes.
Melanin (; from  melas, &quot;black, dark&quot;) is a broad term for a group of natural pigments found in most organisms. Melanin is produced by the oxidation of the amino acid tyrosine, followed by polymerization.
}}akkadû
Clarke County may refer to:
An enchilada (, ) is a corn tortilla rolled around a filling and covered with a chili pepper sauce. Enchiladas can be filled with a variety of ingredients, including various meats, cheese, beans, potatoes, vegetables or combinations.
Columbia County is the name of eight counties in the United States:
Moles are small mammals adapted to a subterranean lifestyle (i.e.
Monroe County may refer to seventeen counties in the United States:
Madison County may refer to:
Warren County is the name of fourteen counties in the USA. They are named after General Joseph Warren, who was killed in the Battle of Bunker Hill in the American Revolutionary War:
}}
Chester is a city and is also the county town of Cheshire, United Kingdom.
thumb|right|280px|[[Pope Pius XI (left) blesses Bishop Stephen Alencastre as fifth Apostolic Vicar of the Hawaiian Islands in a Cathedral of Our Lady of Peace window. In Roman Catholicism, the pope as the bishop of the Diocese of Rome, creates the other Catholic dioceses throughout the world and chooses their bishops.
}}
Pseudotsuga Sunset Western Garden Book, 1995:606–607 is a genus of evergreen coniferous trees in the family Pinaceae. Common names include Douglas fir, Douglas-fir, Douglas tree, and Oregon pine.
thumb|300px|right|[[Diatoms are one of the most common types of phytoplankton.]]
Zooplankton (pronounced in several different ways, including }} or .}}) are heterotrophic (sometimes detritivorous) plankton.
In Roman mythology, the lemures  were shades or spirits of the restless or malignant dead, and are probably cognate with an extended sense of larvae  (from Latin larva, &quot;mask&quot;) as disturbing or frightening. Lemures is the more common literary term but even this is rare: it is used by the Augustan poets Horace and Ovid, the latter in his Fasti, the six-book calendar poem on Roman holidays and religious customs.
Dominance may refer to:
The reflected binary code (RBC), also known as Gray code after Frank Gray, is a binary numeral system where two successive values differ in only one bit (binary digit).
Executive may refer to:
A Gold code, also known as Gold sequence, is a type of binary sequence, used in telecommunication (CDMA) and satellite navigation (GPS). Gold codes are named after Robert Gold.
Personal rapid transit (PRT), also referred to as podcars, is a public transport mode featuring small automated vehicles operating on a network of specially built guideways. PRT is a type of automated guideway transit (AGT), a class of system which also includes larger vehicles all the way to small subway systems.
thumb|The engineering of this [[roundabout in Bristol, England, attempts to make traffic flow free-moving]]
Queueing theory is the mathematical study of waiting lines, or [book | title = Probability, Statistics and Queueing Theory | first = V. | last = Sundarapandian | publisher = PHI Learning | year = 2009 | chapter = 7.
thumb|upright=2|alt=Comparison between 2-point Gaussian and trapezoidal quadrature.|Comparison between 2-point Gaussian and trapezoidal quadrature.
Orange County is a county in the U.S.
Zircon. MindatZircon.
more...
Spanking is a common form of corporal punishment involving the act of striking the buttocks of another person to cause physical pain, generally with an open hand. More severe forms of spanking, such as switching, paddling, belting, caning, whipping, and birching, involve the use of an implement instead of a hand.
Washington, D.C.
Hyperlexia is a syndrome characterized by a child's precocious ability to read. It was initially identified by Norman E.
BNF may refer to:
thumb|right|A [[USB flash drive. The chip on the left is flash memory.
EEPROM (also written E2PROM and pronounced &quot;e-e-prom&quot;,  &quot;double-e-prom&quot; or &quot;e-squared-prom&quot;) stands for electrically erasable programmable read-only memory and is a type of non-volatile memory used in computers and other electronic devices to store relatively small amounts of data but allowing individual bytes to be erased and reprogrammed.
The interacting boson model (IBM) is a model in nuclear physics in which
Cerebral palsy (CP) is a group of permanent movement disorders that appear in early childhood. Signs and symptoms vary among people.
,
In nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry, the nuclear shell model is a model of the atomic nucleus which uses the Pauli exclusion principle to describe the structure of the nucleus in terms of energy levels. The first shell model was proposed by Dmitry Ivanenko (together with E.
}}
Human habitation of Cyprus dates back to the Paleolithic era. Cyprus's geographic position has caused Cyprus to be influenced by differing Eastern Mediterranean civilisations over the millennia.
In Unix-like operating systems, chmod is the command and system call which may change the access permissions to file system objects (files and directories). It may also alter special mode flags.
right|thumb|A rectangular grid (top) and its image under a conformal map f (bottom). It is seen that f maps pairs of lines intersecting at 90° to pairs of curves still intersecting at 90°.
Sequoiadendron giganteum (giant sequoia; also known as giant redwood, Sierra redwood, Sierran redwood, Wellingtonia or simply Big Treea nickname used by John Muir) is the sole living species in the genus Sequoiadendron, and one of three species of coniferous trees known as redwoods, classified in the family Cupressaceae in the subfamily Sequoioideae, together with Sequoia sempervirens (coast redwood) and Metasequoia glyptostroboides (dawn redwood). The common use of the name sequoia generally refers to Sequoiadendron giganteum, which occurs naturally only in groves on the western slopes of the Sierra Nevada Mountains of California.
The Texas Longhorn is a breed of cattle known for its characteristic horns, which can extend to over   tip to tip for bulls, and  tip to tip for steers and exceptional cows.
Home economics, domestic science, or home science is a field of study that deals with the economics and management of the home and community.International Federation for Home Economics (IFHE): Position Statement in: International Journal of Home Economics; Volume 1, Issue 1, available here It deals with the relationship between individuals, families, communities, and the environment in which they live.
Astronomy (from ) is a natural science that studies celestial objects and phenomena. It applies mathematics, physics, and chemistry, in an effort to explain the origin of those objects and phenomena and their evolution.
In the mathematical field of analysis, uniform convergence is a type of convergence stronger than pointwise convergence. A sequence of functions (f_n) converges uniformly to a limiting function f on a set E if, given any arbitrarily small positive number \epsilon, an N can be found such that each of the functions f_N, f_{N+1},f_{N+2},\ldots differ from f by no more than \epsilon at every point x in E.
(New Style)
}}
Laser printing is an electrostatic digital printing process. It produces high-quality text and graphics (and moderate-quality photographs) by repeatedly passing a laser beam back and forth over a negatively charged cylinder called a &quot;drum&quot; to define a differentially charged image.
Dot matrix printing or impact matrix printing is a type of computer printing which uses a print head that moves back-and-forth, or in an up-and-down motion, on the page and prints by impact, striking an ink-soaked cloth ribbon against the paper, much like the print mechanism on a typewriter. However, unlike a typewriter or daisy wheel printer, letters are drawn out of a dot matrix, and thus, varied fonts and arbitrary graphics can be produced.
A funicular (), also known as an inclined plane or cliff railway, is a type of cable railway in which a cable attached to a pair of tram-like vehicles on rails moves them up and down a steep slope, the ascending and descending vehicles counterbalancing each other. Funiculars of one type or another have existed for hundreds of years, and they continue to be used for moving both passengers and goods.
A line matrix printer is a computer printer that is a compromise between a line printer and a dot matrix printer.  Basically, it prints a page-wide line of dots.
A page printer is a computer printer which processes and prints a whole page at a time, as opposed to printers which print one line or character at a time such as line printers and dot-matrix printers. Page printers are often all incorrectly termed “laser printers”—although virtually all laser printers are page printers, other page printing technologies also exist.
A  pulled rickshaw (or ricksha) is a mode of human-powered transport by which a runner draws a two-wheeled cart which seats one or two people.
E. C.
Inkjet printing is a type of computer printing that recreates a digital image by propelling droplets of ink onto paper, plastic, or other substrates. Inkjet printers are the most commonly used type of printer, and range from small inexpensive consumer models to expensive professional machines.
}}
Environmental engineering is the branch of engineering concerned with the application of scientific and engineering principles for protection of human populations from the effects of adverse environmental factors; protection of environments, both local and global, from  potentially deleterious effects of natural and human activities; and improvement of environmental quality.The American Academy of Environmental Engineers
Construction Engineering is a professional discipline that deals with the designing, planning, construction, and management of infrastructures such as roads, tunnels, bridges, airports, railroads, facilities, buildings, dams, utilities and other projects. Construction Engineering is considered a professional sub-practice area of civil engineering or architectural engineering.
, also known as the , is a science fiction media franchise created by Sunrise that features giant robots (mecha) with mobile suits bearing the name Gundam. It began on April 7, 1979 as Mobile Suit Gundam, a TV series that defined the real robot anime genre by featuring giant robots in a militaristic setting.
Middle English (ME) is collectively the varieties of the English language spoken after the Norman Conquest (1066) until the late 15th century; scholarly opinion varies but the Oxford English Dictionary specifies the period of 1150 to 1500. This stage of the development of the English language roughly followed the High to the Late Middle Ages.
Regional science is a field of the social sciences concerned with analytical approaches to problems that are specifically urban, rural, or regional. Topics in regional science include, but are not limited to location theory or spatial economics, location modeling, transportation, migration analysis, land use and urban development, interindustry analysis, environmental and ecological analysis, resource management, urban and regional policy analysis, geographical information systems, and spatial data analysis.
}}
Piracy is an act of robbery or criminal violence by ship or boat-borne attackers upon another ship or a coastal area, typically with the goal of stealing cargo and other valuable items or properties. Those who engage in acts of piracy are called pirates.
The quantum harmonic oscillator is the quantum-mechanical analog of the classical harmonic oscillator.   Because an arbitrary potential can usually be approximated as a harmonic potential at the vicinity of a stable equilibrium point,  it is one of the most important model systems in quantum mechanics.
thumb|upright|&quot;Buccaneer of the Caribbean&quot; from [[Howard Pyle's Book of Pirates.]]
In probability theory, there exist several different notions of convergence of random variables.  The convergence of sequences of random variables to some limit random variable is an important concept in probability theory, and its applications to statistics and stochastic processes.
In mathematics, strong convergence may refer to:
In mathematics, weak convergence may refer to:
Extreme value theory or extreme value analysis (EVA)  is a branch of statistics dealing with the extreme deviations from the median of probability distributions. It seeks to assess, from a given ordered sample of a given random variable, the probability of events that are more extreme than any previously observed.
Japan
The —literally &quot;big-little&quot;The Japanese sword, Kanzan Satō, Kodansha International, 1983 p.68—is a Japanese term for a matched pair of traditionally made Japanese swords (nihonto) worn by the samurai class in feudal Japan.
Paul Simon (born 1941) is an American musician and songwriter.
Brethren or The Brethren may refer to:
A privateer was a private person or ship that engaged in maritime warfare under a commission of war. The commission, also known as a letter of marque, empowered the person to carry on all forms of hostility permissible at sea by the usages of war, including attacking foreign vessels during wartime and taking them as prizes.
A people mover or automated people mover (APM) is a type of grade-separated mass transit system. The term is generally used only to describe systems serving relatively small areas such as airports, downtown districts or theme parks, but is sometimes applied to considerably more complex automated systems.
A ferry is a merchant vessel used to carry passengers, and sometimes vehicles and cargo as well, across a body of water.  Most ferries operate regular return services.
Endor or Ein Dor may refer to:
* Meshach Taylor
* Aidan Barton
Tendra Risant  Lando &quot;Chance&quot; Calrissian
John Morton Mark Austin Don Bies/Nelson Hall Daniel Logan
TIE fighters are fictional starfighters in the Star Wars universe. Propelled by twin ion engines (hence the TIE acronym), TIE fighters are fast, agile, yet fragile starfighters produced by Sienar Fleet Systems for the Galactic Empire.
}}
XW}}
A-wings are fictional  starfighters in the Star Wars franchise. They first appear in Return of the Jedi (1983) and later in numerous Star Wars materials and productions.
A victimless crime is an illegal act that typically either directly involves only the perpetrator, or occurs between consenting adults; because it is consensual in nature, there is arguably no true victim. Examples of these types of crimes include possession of illegal contraband, and atypical sexual behavior.
A consensual crime is a public-order crime that involves more than one participant, all of whom give their consent as willing participants in an activity that is unlawful. Legislative bodies and interest groups sometimes rationalize the criminalization of consensual activity because they feel it offends cultural norms, or because one of the parties to the activity is considered a &quot;victim&quot; despite their informed consent.
__NOTOC__
The term White Australia policy comprises various historical policies that effectively barred people of non-European descent from immigrating to Australia. There was never any specific policy titled such, but the term was invented later to describe a collection of policies that were designed to exclude people from Asia (particularly China) and the Pacific Islands (particularly Melanesia).
thumb|150px|right|The Coat of Arms of the Republic of Tunisia
The politics of Tunisia takes place within the framework of a unitary semi-presidential representative democratic republic,Choudhry, Sujit; Stacey, Richard (2014) &quot;Semi-presidential government in Tunisia and Egypt&quot;. International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance.
Tunisia has a number of international airports to service its sizable tourist trade. Tunis is the center of the transport system as the largest city having the largest port and a light transit system.
Tunisia's population was estimated to be just under 10.8 million in 2013.
Telecommunications in Tunisia includes telephones (fixed and mobile), radio, television, and the Internet. The Ministry of Communication Technologies, a cabinet-level governmental agency, is in charge of organizing the sector.
Grand Canal can refer to multiple waterways:
}}
}}}}
Farquhar}}
300px
Early Miocene to present
An income tax is a tax imposed on individuals or entities (taxpayers) that varies with their respective income or profits (taxable income). Many jurisdictions refer to income tax on business entities as companies tax or corporate tax.
thumb|200px|Coluccio Salutati.
or 594Leclercq, Henri. &quot;St.
The Holy Roman Emperor (historically  &quot;Emperor of the Romans&quot;) was the ruler of the Holy Roman Empire.
Trivial Pursuit is a board game in which winning is determined by a player's ability to answer general knowledge and popular culture questions. The game was created in December 1979 in Montreal in Quebec, by Canadian Chris Haney, a photo editor for Montreal's The Gazette, and Scott Abbott, a sports editor for The Canadian Press.
In sport, racing is a competition of speed, against an objective criterion, usually a clock or to a specific point. The competitors in a race try to complete a given task in the shortest amount of time.
A stored energy printer is a computer printer that uses the energy stored in a spring or magnetic field to push a hammer through a ribbon to print a dot. As compared to dot matrix printers that print a single column of dots at a time, this printer generally creates an entire line of dots at a time.
Yapi Kredi Publications () is one of the biggest publishing houses in Turkey. Based in Istanbul and active since 1992, as of end of 2013 it has published 4000 titlesYKY announcement of 4000 titles.
In biology, integument is the natural covering of an organism or an organ, such as its skin, husk, shell, or rind.
A router  (, also ) is a tool used to rout out (hollow out) an area in the face of a relatively hard workpiece, typically of wood or plastic. The main application of routers is in woodworking, especially cabinetry.
Feathers are epidermal growths that form the distinctive outer covering, or plumage, on birds. They are considered the most complex integumentary structures found in vertebrates and a premier example of a complex evolutionary novelty.
The history of Madagascar is distinguished clearly by the early isolation of the landmass from the ancient supercontinents containing Africa and India, and by the island's late colonization by human settlers arriving in outrigger canoes from the Sunda islands between 200 BC and 500 AD. These two factors facilitated the evolution and survival of thousands of endemic plant and animal species, some of which have gone extinct or are currently threatened with extinction due to the pressures of a growing human population.
This article is about the demographic features of the population of Madagascar, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.
Politics of Madagascar takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Madagascar is head of state and the Prime Minister of Madagascar is head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government.
Telecommunications in Madagascar include newspapers, radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet.
== Railways ==
The Military of Madagascar is made up of the People's Armed Forces and the National Gendarmerie. The IISS detailed the armed forces in 2012 as including an Army of 12,500+, a Navy of 500, and a 500-strong Air Force.
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) was a functional commission within the overall framework of the United Nations from 1946 until it was replaced by the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2006. It was a subsidiary body of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), and was also assisted in its work by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR).
Late Ordovician (but see text) – present
A space station, also known as an orbital station or an orbital space station, is a spacecraft capable of supporting crewmembers, which is designed to remain in space (most commonly as an artificial satellite in low Earth orbit) for an extended period of time and for other spacecraft to dock. A space station is distinguished from other spacecraft used for human spaceflight by lack of major propulsion or landing systems.
French grammar is the grammar of the French language, which in many respects is quite similar to that of the other Romance languages.
Deep Throat or Deep-throat may refer to:
A wavelet is a wave-like oscillation with an amplitude that begins at zero, increases, and then decreases back to zero. It can typically be visualized as a &quot;brief oscillation&quot; like one recorded by a seismograph or heart monitor.
thumb|right|The Haar wavelet
This is a list of linear transformations of functions related to Fourier analysis.  Such transformations map a function to a set of coefficients of basis functions, where the basis functions are sinusoidal and are therefore strongly localized in the frequency spectrum.
In mathematics,  a basis function is an element of a particular basis for a function space. Every continuous function in the function space can be represented as a linear combination of basis functions, just as every vector in a vector space can be represented as a linear combination of basis vectors.
Transform coding is a type of data compression for &quot;natural&quot; data like audio signals or photographic images. The transformation is typically lossless (perfectly reversible) on their own but are used to enable better (more targeted) quantization, which then results in a lower quality copy of the original input (lossy compression).
Animal Planet on the Death of Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin Sept. 4, 2006
Light rail, light rail transit (LRT), or fast tram is urban public transport using rolling stock similar to a tramway, but operating at a higher capacity, and often on an exclusive right-of-way.
A streetcar or tram is a vehicle that travels on rails, typically in a street.
Trolley may refer to:
Swans are birds of the family Anatidae within the genus Cygnus. The swans' close relatives include the geese and ducks.
Egyptian hieroglyphs (}}}}) were the formal writing system used in Ancient Egypt. It combined logographic, syllabic and alphabetic elements, with a total of some 1,000 distinct characters.
A witness is someone who has, who claims to have, or is thought, by someone with authority to compel testimony, to have knowledge relevant to an event or other matter of interest. In law a witness is someone who, either voluntarily or under compulsion, provides testimonial evidence, either oral or written, of what he or she knows or claims to know about the matter before some official authorized to take such testimony.
Italian neorealism (), also known as the Golden Age of Italian Cinema, is a national film movement characterized by stories set amongst the poor and the working class, filmed on location, frequently using non-professional actors. Italian neorealism films mostly contend with the difficult economic and moral conditions of post-World War II Italy, representing changes in the Italian psyche and conditions of everyday life, including poverty, oppression, injustice, and desperation.
An Independence Day is an annual event commemorating the anniversary of a nation's independence or statehood, usually after ceasing to be a group or part of another nation or state; more rarely after the end of a military occupation.
In number theory, a Liouville number is an irrational number x with the property that, for every positive integer n, there exist integers p and  q with q &gt; 1 and such that
Crane or cranes may refer to:
DASD may refer to:
Brunswick is the historical English name for the German city of Braunschweig. Other uses may refer to:
This is a list of computing and IT acronyms and abbreviations.
Abbreviations are used very frequently in medicine. They boost efficiency as long as they are used intelligently.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 910 (CMX) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Neorealism or structural realism is a theory of international relations that says power is the most important factor in international relations. It was first outlined by Kenneth Waltz in his 1979 book Theory of International Politics.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
USS Hawes (FFG-53) is a later model  guided missile frigate. She is named for Rear Admiral Richard E.
Robert de Clifford
Latins referred originally to an Italic tribe in ancient central Italy from Latium. As Roman power and colonizationhttps://www.
Gaius Julius Vindex (born ca. AD 25; died AD 68), of a noble Gaulish family of Aquitania given senatorial status under Claudius, was a Roman governor in the province of Gallia Lugdunensis.
Rigging comprises the system of ropes, cables and chains, which support a sailing ship or sail boat's masts—standing rigging, including shrouds and stays—and which adjust the position of the vessel's sails and spars to which they are attached—the running rigging, including halyards, braces, sheets and vangs.
A slurry pipeline is a specially engineered pipeline used to move ores, such as coal or iron, or mining waste, called tailings, over long distances. A mixture of the ore concentrate and water, called slurry, is pumped to its destination and the water is filtered out.
Transit may refer to:
Brest may refer to:
Siren}}
}}
Peter Kropotkin (1842–1921) was a Russian prince and anarchist.
Electroplating is a process that uses electric current to reduce dissolved metal cations so that they form a thin coherent metal coating on an electrode. The term is also used for electrical oxidation of anions onto a solid substrate, as in the formation silver chloride on silver wire to make silver/silver-chloride electrodes.
A patronym, or patronymic, is a component of a personal name based on the given name of one's father, grandfather (i.e.
A cinematographer or director of photography (sometimes shortened to DP or DOP) is the chief over the camera and light crews working on a film, television production or other live action piece and is responsible for making artistic and technical decisions related to the image. The study and practice of this field is referred to as cinematography.
The prohibition of drugs through sumptuary legislation or religious law is a common means of attempting to prevent the recreational use of the certain recreational drugs and other intoxicating substances.
Some of the technological applications of superconductivity include:
Robert Dudley, 1st Earl of Leicester  (24 June 1532 or 1533 – 4 September 1588) was an English nobleman and the favourite and close friend of Elizabeth I's, from her first year on the throne until his death. He was a suitor for the queen's hand for many years.
The Second Peace of Thorn of 1466 (; ) was a peace treaty signed in the Hanseatic city of Thorn (Toruń) on 19 October 1466 between the Polish king Casimir IV Jagiellon on one side, and the Teutonic Knights on the other.
Paleoclimatology (in British spelling, palaeoclimatology) is the study of changes in climate taken on the scale of the entire history of Earth. It uses a variety of proxy methods from the Earth and life sciences to obtain data previously preserved within things such as rocks, sediments, ice sheets, tree rings, corals, shells, and microfossils.
A remotely guided rat, popularly called a ratbot or robo-rat, is a rat with electrodes implanted in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) and sensorimotor cortex of its brain. They were developed in 2002 by Sanjiv Talwar and John Chapin at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center.
Semiotic literary criticism, also called literary semiotics, is the approach to literary criticism informed by the theory of signs or semiotics. Semiotics, tied closely to the structuralism pioneered by Ferdinand de Saussure, was extremely influential in the development of literary theory out of the formalist approaches of the early twentieth century.
Psychoanalytic literary criticism is literary criticism or literary theory which, in method, concept, or form, is influenced by the tradition of psychoanalysis begun by Sigmund Freud.
Late Pliocene–Holocene
Feminist literary criticism is literary criticism informed by feminist theory, or, more broadly, by the politics of feminism. It uses feminist principles and ideology to critique the language of literature.
Sewer may refer to:
Anomie () is a &quot;condition in which society provides little moral guidance to individuals&quot;. It is the breakdown of social bonds between an individual and the community, e.
Conventional superconductors are materials that display superconductivity as described by BCS theory or its extensions. This is in contrast to unconventional superconductors, which do not.
In logic and proof theory, natural deduction is a kind of proof calculus in which logical reasoning is expressed by inference rules closely related to the &quot;natural&quot; way of reasoning. This contrasts with Hilbert-style systems, which instead use axioms as much as possible to express the logical laws of deductive reasoning.
A magnet is a material or object that produces a magnetic field. This magnetic field is invisible but is responsible for the most notable property of a magnet: a force that pulls on other ferromagnetic materials, such as iron, and attracts or repels other magnets.
Richmond may refer to:
Unconventional superconductors are materials that display superconductivity which does not conform to either the conventional BCS theory or Nikolay Bogolyubov's theory or its extensions.
Jefferson County is the name of 26 counties and one parish in the United States:
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 912 (CMXII) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Kurt Julian Weill (March 2, 1900April 3, 1950) was a German composer, active from the 1920s in his native country, and in his later years in the United States.&quot;Mack the Knife&quot; – Sinatra Song of the Century #95 by Mark Steyn, December 8, 2015 He was a leading composer for the stage who was best known for his fruitful collaborations with Bertolt Brecht.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
Year 951 (CMLI) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
, attributed to John de Critz
In biology, poisons are substances that cause disturbances in organisms, usually by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale, when an organism absorbs a sufficient quantity.&quot;Poison&quot; at Merriam-Webster.
Pipeline transport is the transportation of goods or material through a pipe. The latest data, in 2014, gives a total of slightly less than  of pipeline in 120 countries of the world.
200px|right|thumb|Clemens August of Bavaria.
Transport economics is a branch of economics founded in 1959 by American economist John R. Meyer that deals with the allocation of resources within the transport sector.
Alienation may refer to:
thumb|right|Diagram of the Meissner effect. Magnetic field lines, represented as arrows, are excluded from a superconductor when it is below its critical temperature.
The literary theory in a strict sense is the systematic study of the nature of literature and of the methods for analyzing literature.Culler 1997, p.
Literary criticism (or literary studies) is the study, evaluation, and interpretation of literature. Modern literary criticism is often influenced by literary theory, which is the philosophical discussion of literature's goals and methods.
Pierrot () is a stock character of pantomime and Commedia dell'Arte whose origins are in the late seventeenth-century Italian troupe of players performing in Paris and known as the Comédie-Italienne; the name is a diminutive of Pierre (Peter), via the suffix [His character in contemporary popular culture—in poetry, fiction, and the visual arts, as well as works for the stage, screen, and concert hall—is that of the sad clown, pining for love of Columbine], who usually breaks his heart and leaves him for [[Harlequin. Performing unmasked, with a whitened face, he wears a loose white blouse with large buttons and wide white pantaloons.
The Nash embedding theorems (or imbedding theorems), named after John Forbes Nash, state that every Riemannian manifold can be isometrically embedded into some Euclidean space. Isometric means preserving the length of every path.
The College of Sorbonne () was a theological college of the University of Paris, founded in 1253 by Robert de Sorbon (1201–1274), after whom it was named.De Ridder-Symoens, Hilde.
thumb|right|250px|Leonardo Bruni
}}
The mail or post is a system for physically transporting documents and other small packages; or, the postcards, letters, and parcels themselves.In Australia, Canada, and the U.
USS Enterprise-EUSS Enterprise-D
The giant-impact hypothesis, sometimes called the Big Splash, or the Theia Impact suggests that the Moon formed out of the debris left over from a collision between Earth and an astronomical body the size of Mars, approximately 4.5 billion years ago, in the Hadean eon; about 20 to 100 million years after the solar system coalesced.
[[Ella Fitzgerald is generally considered to be one of the greatest scat singers in jazz history.|thumb|upright]]
}}}}
The photophone is a telecommunications device that allows transmission of speech on a beam of light. It was invented jointly by Alexander Graham Bell and his assistant Charles Sumner Tainter on February 19, 1880, at Bell's laboratory at 1325 L Street in Washington, D.
Breda is a city in the southern Netherlands.
DAF or Daf may refer to:
Ronald Binge (15 July 19106 September 1979) was a British composer and arranger of light music. He arranged many of Mantovani's most famous pieces before composing his own music that included Elizabethan Serenade and Sailing By.
Formentera (, ) is the smaller and more southerly island of the Pityusic Islands group (comprising Ibiza and Formentera, as well as various small islets), which belongs to the Balearic Islands autonomous community (Spain).
}}
border
– 56th ranking of government expenditure on education worldwide.https://www.
DNIX (original spelling: D-Nix) was a Unix-like real-time operating system from the Swedish company Dataindustrier AB (DIAB). A version called ABCenix was also developed for the ABC1600 computer from Luxor.
right|thumb|The front page of the Quikscript manual. The Quikscript text reads, &quot;This is the way to do it.
Uncle Tom is the title character of Harriet Beecher Stowe's 1852 novel, Uncle Tom's Cabin. The term &quot;Uncle Tom&quot; is also used as a derogatory epithet for an excessively subservient person, particularly when that person is aware of their own lower-class status based on race.
}}
Carroll County is the name of thirteen counties in the U.S.
Putnam County is the name of nine counties in the United States of America, each named for military hero Israel Putnam:
Henry County is the name of ten counties in the United States of America:
Lake County may refer to:
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
Julius NeposMartindale 1980, s.v.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
Samizdat () was a key form of dissident activity across the Soviet bloc in which individuals reproduced censored and underground publications by hand and passed the documents from reader to reader. This grassroots practice to evade official Soviet censorship was fraught with danger, as harsh punishments were meted out to people caught possessing or copying censored materials.
In mathematics, a coefficient is a multiplicative factor in some term of a polynomial, a series or any expression; it is usually a number, but may be any expression. In the latter case, the variables appearing in the coefficients are often called parameters, and must be clearly distinguished from the other variables.
In biochemistry, a kinase is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of phosphate groups from high-energy, phosphate-donating molecules to specific substrates. This process is known as phosphorylation, where the substrate gains a phosphate group and the high-energy ATP molecule donates a phosphate group.
Slow Scan television (SSTV) is a picture transmission method used mainly by amateur radio operators, to transmit and receive static pictures via radio in monochrome or color.
An airliner is a type of aircraft for transporting passengers and air cargo.  Such aircraft are most often operated by airlines.
The culture of Egypt has thousands of years of recorded history. Ancient Egypt was among the earliest civilizations in Africa.
Thrasamund (450–523), King of the Vandals and Alans (496–523), was the fourth king of the north African Kingdom of the Vandals, and reigned longer than any other Vandal king in Africa other than his grandfather Genseric.
Gunthamund (c. 450-496), King of the Vandals and Alans (484-496) was the third king of the north African Vandal Kingdom.
British Empire
Wilshire|Wilshere}}
A single-occupancy vehicle (SOV) is a privately operated vehicle whose only occupant is the driver. The drivers of SOVs use their vehicles primarily for personal travel, daily commuting and for running errands.
Quercus kelloggii, the California black oak, also known as simply black oak, or Kellogg oak, is an oak in the red oak section (Quercus sect. Lobatae), native to western North America.
In economics, industrial organization or Industrial economy is a field that builds on the theory of the firm by examining the structure of (and, therefore, the boundaries between) firms and markets. Industrial organization adds real-world complications to the perfectly competitive model, complications such as transaction costs,• R.
border
NFS may refer to:
Network File System (NFS) is a distributed file system protocol originally developed by Sun Microsystems in 1984,  allowing a user on a client computer to access files over a computer network much like local storage is accessed. NFS, like many other protocols, builds on the Open Network Computing Remote Procedure Call (ONC RPC) system.
Nut primarily refers to:
Father of the House is a term that has been by tradition bestowed unofficially on certain members of some legislatures, most notably the House of Commons in the United Kingdom. In some legislatures the term refers to the oldest member, but in others it refers to the member longest-serving.
Public choice or public choice theory refers to &quot;the use of economic tools to deal with traditional problems of political science&quot;.Gordon Tullock, [1987] 2008, &quot;public choice,&quot; The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics.
Montgomery County is a county in the U.S.
In botany, a bulb is structurally a short stem with fleshy leaves or leaf basesBell, A.D.
Japan
is the umbrella term for all (koryū) schools of Japanese swordsmanship, in particular those that predate the Meiji Restoration. The modern styles of kendo and iaido that were established in the 20th century included modern form of kenjutsu in their curriculum, too.
Commando Unit 101 (Hebrew: יחידה 101) was a special forces unit of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF), founded and commanded by Ariel Sharon on orders from Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion in August 1953. They were armed with non-standard weapons and tasked with carrying out retribution operations across the state's borders—in particular, establishing small unit maneuvers, activation and insertion tactics.
A prince-bishop is a bishop who is also the civil ruler of some secular principality and sovereignty. Thus the principality or prince-bishopric ruled politically by a prince-bishop could wholly or largely overlap with his diocesan jurisdiction, since some parts of his diocese, even the city of his residence, could be exempt from his civil rule, obtaining the status of free imperial city.
A guillotine (; ) is an apparatus designed for efficiently carrying out executions by beheading. The device consists of a tall, upright frame in which a weighted and angled blade is raised to the top and suspended.
}}
Charles Kenneth Horne, generally known as Kenneth Horne, (27 February 1907 – 14 February 1969) was an English comedian and businessman. He is perhaps best remembered for his work on three BBC Radio series: Much-Binding-in-the-Marsh (1944–54), Beyond Our Ken (1958–64) and Round the Horne (1965–68).
Maluku may refer to:
The Spice Islands typically refers to the Molucca Archipelago in the modern Indonesian provinces of Maluku and North Maluku. Historically, this lucrative part of the (Dutch) East Indies also included other nearby islands, including Sulawesi (Celebes).
A translation memory (TM) is a database that stores &quot;segments&quot;, which can be sentences, paragraphs or sentence-like units (headings, titles or elements in a list) that have previously been translated, in order to aid human translators. The translation memory stores the source text and its corresponding translation in language pairs called “translation units”.
Pontianus}}
Cowpox is an infectious disease caused by the cowpox virus. The virus, part of the orthopoxvirus family, is closely related to the vaccinia virus.
The White Rose () was a non-violent, intellectual resistance group in Nazi Germany led by a group of students and a professor at the University of Munich. The group conducted an anonymous leaflet and graffiti campaign which called for active opposition to the Nazi regime.
The history of Antarctica emerges from early Western theories of a vast continent, known as Terra Australis, believed to exist in the far south of the globe. The term Antarctic, referring to the opposite of the Arctic Circle, was coined by Marinus of Tyre in the 2nd century AD.
Intellectual history refers to the historiography of ideas and thinkers.  This history cannot be considered without the knowledge of the humans who created, discussed, wrote about, and in other ways were concerned with ideas.
Ancient history is the aggregate of past eventsWordNet Search - 3.0, &quot;History&quot;  from the beginning of recorded human history and extending as far as the Early Middle Ages or the Postclassical Era.
A famine is a widespread scarcity of food, caused by several factors including crop failure, population imbalance, or government policies. This phenomenon is usually accompanied or followed by regional malnutrition, starvation, epidemic, and increased mortality.
The Babington Plot was a plan in 1586 to assassinate Queen Elizabeth I, a Protestant, and put Mary, Queen of Scots, her Roman Catholic cousin, on the English throne. It led to the Queen of Scots' execution, a direct result of a letter sent by Mary (who had been imprisoned for 19 years since 1568 in England at the behest of Elizabeth) in which she consented directly  to the assassination of Elizabeth.
In dimensional analysis, a dimensionless quantity is a quantity to which no physical dimension is applicable. It is also known as a bare number or a quantity of dimension one.
The power number Np (also known as Newton number) is a commonly used dimensionless number relating the resistance force to the inertia force.
Antigua can refer to:
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
thumb|300px|right|[[Sappho and Alcaeus of Mytilene, by Lawrence Alma-Tadema (1881).]]
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
Early Eocene – Recent
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
Polychlorinated dibenzodioxins (PCDDs), or simply dioxins, are a group of polyhalogenated organic compounds that are significant environmental pollutants.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
The history of the Caribbean reveals the significant role the region played in the colonial struggles of the European powers since the 15th century. In the 20th century the Caribbean was again important during World War II, in the  decolonization wave during  the post-war period, and in the tension between Communist Cuba and the United States.
==Births==
thumb|300px|Political Evolution of Central America and the Caribbean from 1700 to present
This decade witnessed the continuing decline of the Achaemenid Empire, fierce warfare amongst the Greek city-states during the Peloponnesian War, the ongoing Warring States period in Zhou dynasty China, and the closing years of the Olmec civilization (lasting from c. 1200–400 BC) in modern-day Mexico.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
History of North America encompasses the past developments of people populating the continent of North America. While it was widely believed that continent first became a human habitat when people migrated across the Bering Sea 40,000 to 17,000 years ago,
The history of South America is the study of the past, particularly the written record, oral histories, and traditions, passed down from generation to generation on the continent of South America. South America has a history that has a wide range of human cultures and forms of civilization.
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
2016 was designated as:
The European Biomass Association (AEBIOM, from the official French name Association Européenne pour la Biomasse) is a European trade association opens to national biomass associations and bioenergy companies active in Europe. AEBIOM was founded in 1990 and aims to promote biomass production and application throughout Europe.
2017 has been designated as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development by the United Nations General Assembly.
==Predicted and scheduled events==
==Predicted and scheduled events==
The 2060s is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2060, and will end on December 31, 2069.
The Czech Biomass Association (CZ BIOM) is a NGO, which supports the development of phytoenergetics in the Czech Republic. Members of CZ BIOM are scientists, specialists, entrepreneurs, and activists interested in using biomass as an energy resource.
During the 290s BC, Hellenistic civilization begins its emergence throughout the successor states of the former Argead Macedonian Empire of Alexander the Great, resulting in the diffusion of Greek culture throughout the Levant and advances in science, mathematics, philosophy, etc. Meanwhile, the Roman Republic is embroiled in war against the Samnites, the Mauryan Empire continues to thrive in Ancient India, and the Kingdom of Qin in Ancient China, the one which in the future will conquer its adversaries and unite China, begins to emerge as a significant power during the Warring States period.
==Predicted and scheduled events==
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
In engineering, applied mathematics, and physics, the Buckingham  theorem is a key theorem in dimensional analysis.  It is a formalization of Rayleigh's method of dimensional analysis.
Automatism may refer to:
The Low Countries (, ) is a coastal region in western Europe, consisting especially of the Netherlands and Belgium, and the low-lying delta of the Rhine, Meuse, Scheldt, and Ems rivers where much of the land is at or below sea level. This wide area of Western Europe roughly stretches from French Gravelines and Dunkirk at its southwestern point, to the area of Dutch Delfzijl and German Eastern Frisia at its northeastern point, and to Luxembourg and French Thionville in the southeast.
Probability and Statistics or also called Statistics and Probability are two related but separate academic disciplines. Statistical analysis often uses probability distributions, and the two topics are often studied together.
The fundamental theorem of algebra states that every non-constant single-variable polynomial with complex  coefficients has at least one complex root. This includes polynomials with real coefficients, since every real number is a complex number with an imaginary part equal to zero.
Kazantzakis}}
In mathematics, an integer sequence is a sequence (i.e.
thumb|The 3-adic integers, with selected corresponding characters on their [[Pontryagin dual group]]
Name used in The Constitution of the Republic of Somaliland and in Somaliland Official Gazette|italic=no}}}}}}SomalilandSusan M. Hassig, Zawiah Abdul Latif, Somalia, (Marshall Cavendish: 2007), p.
right|thumb|250px|An illustration of Cantor's diagonal argument (in base 2) for the existence of [[uncountable sets. The sequence at the bottom cannot occur anywhere in the enumeration of sequences above.
The system of hyperreal numbers is a way of treating infinite and infinitesimal quantities.  The hyperreals, or nonstandard reals, *R, are an extension of the real numbers R that contains numbers greater than anything of the form
In mathematics, the surreal number system is a totally ordered class containing the real numbers as well as infinite and infinitesimal numbers, respectively larger or smaller in absolute value than any positive real number.  The surreals share many properties with the reals, including the usual arithmetic operations (addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division); as such, they form an ordered field.
In abstract algebra, the sedenions form a 16-dimensional noncommutative and nonassociative algebra over the reals obtained by applying the Cayley–Dickson construction to the octonions. Unlike the octonions, the sedenions are not an alternative algebra.
In mathematics, the octonions are a normed division algebra over the real numbers, usually represented by the capital letter O, using boldface O or blackboard bold \mathbb O. There are three lower-dimensional normed division algebras over the reals: the real numbers R themselves, the complex numbers C, and the quaternions H.
In mathematics, a hypercomplex number is a traditional term for an element of a unital algebra over the field of real numbers.
In mathematics, the quaternions are a number system that extends the complex numbers. They were first described by Irish mathematician William Rowan Hamilton in 1843  and applied to mechanics in three-dimensional space.
In abstract algebra, an element  of a ring  is called a left zero divisor if there exists a nonzero  such that ,See Bourbaki, p. 98.
Zorn's lemma, also known as the Kuratowski–Zorn lemma, after mathematicians Max Zorn and Kazimierz Kuratowski, is a proposition of set theory that states that a partially ordered set containing upper bounds for every chain (that is, every totally ordered subset) necessarily contains at least one maximal element.
thumb|right|450px|The graph of the winding number of the [[circle map is an example of a singular function.]]
AutoLISP is a dialect of the LISP programming language built specifically for use with the full version of AutoCAD and its derivatives, which include AutoCAD Map 3D, AutoCAD Architecture and AutoCAD Mechanical. Neither the application programming interface nor the interpreter to execute AutoLISP code are included in the AutoCAD LT product line.
A machine is a tool containing one or more parts that uses energy to perform an intended action. Machines are usually powered by chemical, thermal, or electrical means, and are often motorized.
A mold () or mould ( is a fungus that grows in the form of multicellular filaments called hyphae. In contrast, fungi that can adopt a single-celled growth habit are called yeasts.
[roots (mycélium).jpg|thumb|right|Fungal mycelium]
thumb|300px|Spores produced in a sporic life cycle.
}}
thumb|Hyphae of [[Penicillium]]
A jurist (from medieval Latin) is someone who researches and studies jurisprudence (theory of law). Such a person can work as an academic, legal writer or law lecturer.
Mutualism is the way two organisms of different species exist in a relationship in which each individual benefits from the activity of the other. Similar interactions within a species are known as co-operation.
The German Workers' Party (, DAP) was a short-lived political party and the precursor of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (, NSDAP); commonly referred to in English as the Nazi Party. The DAP only lasted from January 1919 until February 1920.
Rhone can refer to:
Rights are legal, social, or ethical principles of freedom or entitlement; that is, rights are the fundamental normative rules about what is allowed of people or owed to people, according to some legal system, social convention, or ethical theory. Rights are of essential importance in such disciplines as law and ethics, especially theories of justice and deontology.
,
Santiago (pop. 5 million) is the capital city of Chile, named in honour of Saint James.
)
)
Prog}}
Dell Hathaway Hymes (June 7, 1927 in Portland, OregonNovember 13, 2009 in Charlottesville, Virginia) was a linguist, sociolinguist, anthropologist, and folklorist who established disciplinary foundations for the comparative, ethnographic study of language use. His research focused upon the languages of the Pacific Northwest.
thumb|300px|Many county seats in the United States feature a historic courthouse, such as this one in [[Renville County, Minnesota, pictured in May 2015.]]
A prince is a male ruler or member of a monarch's or former monarch's family. Prince is also a title of  nobility, often hereditary, in some European states.
Etiquette ( or , ) is a code of behavior that delineates expectations for social behavior according to contemporary conventional norms within a society, social class, or group.
300px|thumb|Traditional target arrow (top) and replica medieval arrow.
A dam is a barrier that stops or restricts the flow of water or underground streams. Reservoirs created by dams not only suppress floods but also provide water for activities such  as irrigation, human consumption, industrial use, aquaculture, and navigability.
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is one of the five major groups of lipoprotein. These groups, from least dense, compared to surrounding water, (largest particles) to most dense (smallest particles), are chylomicrons, very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), intermediate-density lipoprotein (IDL), low-density lipoprotein and high-density lipoprotein (HDL).
Fokker was a Dutch aircraft manufacturer named after its founder, Anthony Fokker. The company operated under several different names, starting out in 1912 in Schwerin, Germany, moving to the Netherlands in 1919.
The Pink Panther is a series of comedy-mystery films featuring an inept French police detective, Inspector Jacques Clouseau. The series began with the release of The Pink Panther (1963).
right|frame|Anton de Bary
Tera}}
Geostatistics is a branch of statistics focusing on spatial or spatiotemporal datasets. Developed originally to predict probability distributions of ore grades for mining operations,Krige, Danie G.
A hydraulic fill is an embankment or other fill in which the materials are deposited in place by a flowing stream of water, with the deposition being selective.  Gravity, coupled with velocity control, is used to effect the selected deposition of the material.
Category 5 cable, commonly referred to as Cat 5, is a twisted pair cable for computer networks. The cable standard provides performance of up to 100 MHz and is suitable for most varieties of Ethernet over twisted pair.
Washington County is a county in the U.S.
Cat5 or CAT5 may refer to:
A phonetic complement is a phonetic symbol used to disambiguate word characters (logograms) that have multiple readings, in mixed logographic-phonetic scripts such as Egyptian hieroglyphs, Akkadian cuneiform, Japanese, and Mayan.  Often they reenforce the communication of the ideogram by repeating the first or last syllable in the term.
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is an advanced distance-vector routing protocol that is used on a computer network for automating routing decisions and configuration. The protocol was designed by Cisco Systems as a proprietary protocol, available only on Cisco routers.
Elam (;LDS.org: &quot;Book of Mormon Pronunciation Guide&quot; (retrieved 2012-02-25), IPA-ified from «ē´lum»  ‘Êlām) in the Hebrew Bible (Genesis 10:22, Ezra 4:9;) is said to be one of the sons of Shem, the son of Noah.
A postal code (also known locally in various English-speaking countries throughout the world as a postcode, post code, Eircode, PIN Code or ZIP Code) is a series of letters and/or digits, sometimes including spaces or punctuation, included in a postal address for the purpose of sorting mail.
ZIP Codes are a system of postal codes used by the United States Postal Service since 1963. The term ZIP, an acronym for Zone Improvement Program, was chosen to suggest that the mail travels more efficiently, and therefore more quickly ([along]), when senders use the code in the postal address.
The Rhineland (, ) is the name used for a loosely defined area of Western Germany along the Rhine River, chiefly its middle section.
A cnidocyte (also known as a cnidoblast or nematocyte) is an explosive cell containing one giant secretory organelle or cnida (plural cnidae) that defines the phylum Cnidaria (corals, sea anemones, hydrae, jellyfish, etc.).
Grunge (sometimes referred to as the Seattle sound) is a subgenre of alternative rock and a subculture that emerged during the  in the Pacific Northwest U.S.
Iridology (also known as iridodiagnosisCline D; Hofstetter HW; Griffin JR. Dictionary of Visual Science.
A referendum (plural referendums, see below) is a direct vote in which an entire electorate is asked to vote on a particular proposal. This may result in the adoption of a new law.
,
}} · City of Phnom Penh
Менск  Минск
As defined by experts with a biomedical background, a mental disorder is &quot;a clinically significant behavioral or psychological syndrome or psychological pattern that occurs in an individual and that is associated with present disability or with a significantly increased risk of suffering, death, pain, disability, or an important loss of freedom.&quot;American Psychiatric Association (APA).
Sketch comedy comprises a series of short comedy scenes or vignettes, called &quot;sketches&quot;, commonly between one and ten minutes long. Such sketches are performed by a group of comic actors or comedians, either on stage or through an audio or visual medium such as radio and television.
The relationship between biology and sexual orientation is a subject of research. A simple and singular determinant for sexual orientation has not been conclusively demonstrated; various studies point to different, even conflicting positions, but scientists hypothesize that a combination of genetic, hormonal, and social factors determine sexual orientation.
Pelagius (, ; c. 685 – 737) was a Visigothic nobleman;  who founded the Kingdom of Asturias, ruling it from 718 until his death.
The sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) is a dicotyledonous plant that belongs to the family Convolvulaceae.  Its large, starchy, sweet-tasting, tuberous roots are a root vegetable.
thumb|Principle of PAM: (1) original signal, (2) PAM signal, (a) amplitude of signal, (b) time
Flora is plant life collectively, as distinct from animal life (Fauna).
A puffball is a member of any of several groups of fungi in the division Basidiomycota. The puffballs were previously treated as a taxonomic group called the Gasteromycetes or Gasteromycetidae, but they are now known to be a polyphyletic assemblage.
Mens rea (; Law Latin for &quot;guilty mind&quot;Black's Law Dictionary, p. 889 (5th ed.
Deponent may refer to:
Earth Star}}
. The Times.
Michael Gross may refer to:
Primo may refer to:
In set theory, a field of mathematics, the Burali-Forti paradox demonstrates that constructing &quot;the set of all ordinal numbers&quot; leads to a contradiction and therefore shows an antinomy in a system that allows its construction. It is named after Cesare Burali-Forti, who in 1897 published a paper proving a theorem which, unknown to him, contradicted a previously proved result by Cantor.
In mathematics and physics, a soliton is a self-reinforcing solitary wave packet that maintains its shape while it propagates at a constant velocity. Solitons are caused by a cancellation of nonlinear and dispersive effects in the medium.
The Severn bore is a tidal bore seen on the tidal reaches of the River Severn in south western England. It is formed when the rising tide moves into the funnel-shaped Bristol Channel and Severn Estuary and the surging water forces its way upstream in a series of waves, as far as Gloucester and beyond.
Limey is a predominantly North American slang nickname for British people, originally referring to their sailors.Oxford Dictionaries: Limey  Retrieved 2011-07-06
In spatial statistics, the empirical semivariance is described by
In botany, shoots  consist of stems including their appendages, the leaves and lateral buds, flowering stems and flower buds.  The new growth from seed germination that grows upward is a shoot where leaves will develop.
Aryan Nations is a white supremacist religious organization originally based in Hayden, Idaho. Richard Girnt Butler founded the group in the 1970s, as an arm of the Christian Identity organization Church of Jesus Christ–Christian.
A quatorzain (from  Italian quattordici or French quatorze, fourteen) is a poem of fourteen lines.  Historically the term has often been used interchangeably with the term 'sonnet'.
In mathematics and logic, a vacuous truth is a statement that asserts that all members of the empty set have a certain property. For example, the statement &quot;all cell phones in the room are turned off&quot; will be true whenever there are no cell phones in the room.
}}
Paula Danziger (August 18, 1944 – July 8, 2004) was an American children's author. She grew up in Metuchen, New Jersey.
The Hurrians (; cuneiform: ; transliteration: Ḫu-ur-ri), also called Hari, Khurrites, Hourri, Churri, Hurri or Hurriter, were a people of the Bronze Age Near East. They spoke a Hurro-Urartian language called Hurrian, and lived in Anatolia and Northern Mesopotamia.
Retrieved 21 January 2014
An auxiliary verb (abbreviated ) is a verb that adds functional or grammatical meaning to the clause in which it appears, such as to express tense, aspect, modality, voice, emphasis, etc. Auxiliary verbs usually accompany a main verb.
Pete and Dud were characters played by the comedians and entertainers Peter Cook and Dudley Moore.
Kent M. Keith (born in Brooklyn), is an American writer and leader in higher education.
}}
}}
In the law of the United States, a deposition is the out-of-court oral testimony of a witness that is reduced to writing for later use in court or for discovery purposes.  It is commonly used in litigation in the United States and Canada, where it is called examination for discovery, and is almost always conducted outside of court by the lawyers themselves (that is, the judge is not present to supervise the examination).
In mathematics, the affinely extended real number system is obtained from the real number system  by adding two elements:  and  (read as positive infinity and negative infinity respectively). These new elements are not real numbers.
thumb|300px|right|Simple superscalar pipeline. By fetching and dispatching two instructions at a time, a maximum of two instructions per cycle can be completed.
An attic is an area under the roof of a house.
Very long instruction word (VLIW) refers to instruction set architectures designed to exploit instruction level parallelism (ILP). Whereas conventional central processing units (CPU, processor) mostly allow programs to specify instructions to execute in sequence only, a VLIW processor allows programs to explicitly specify instructions to execute at the same time, concurrently, in parallel.
Bauhin — a family of physicians and scientists.
In calculus, Taylor's theorem gives an approximation of a k-times differentiable function around a given point by a k-th order Taylor polynomial. For analytic functions the Taylor polynomials at a given point are finite order truncations of its Taylor series, which completely determines the function in some neighborhood of the point.
Robert Aurand Moon (April 15, 1917, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, USA – April 11, 2001, Leesburg, Florida, USA), sometimes called &quot;Mr. ZIP&quot;, is considered the father of the ZIP Code or Zone Improvement Plan, a mechanism to route mail in the United States.
A moped (/ˈmoʊpɛd/ MOH-ped) is a small motorcycle, generally having a less stringent licensing requirement than motorcycles or automobiles because mopeds typically travel about the same speed as bicycles on public roadways. Strictly speaking, mopeds are driven by both an engine and by bicycle pedals, but in common usage and in many jurisdictions the term moped is used for similar vehicles including a scooter, though this is quite erroneous.
Conveyor transport is the broad category of transport modes that includes modes developed from the idea of a conveyor belt.  Examples include:
In mathematical analysis, Lipschitz continuity, named after Rudolf Lipschitz, is a strong form of uniform continuity for functions. Intuitively, a Lipschitz continuous function is limited in how fast it can change: there exists a definite real number such that, for every pair of points on the graph of this function, the absolute value of the slope of the line connecting them is not greater than this real number; this bound is called a Lipschitz constant of the function (or modulus of uniform continuity).
A conveyor belt is the carrying medium of a belt conveyor system (often shortened to belt conveyor). A belt conveyor system is one of many types of conveyor systems.
A dark moon describes the Moon during that time that it is invisible against the backdrop of the Sun in the sky. The duration of a dark moon is between 1.
A blimp, or non-rigid airship, is an airship (dirigible) or barrage balloonn.&quot; Oxford Dictionary of English.
American Pie may refer to:
thumb|right|250px|A 19th century architect at the drawing board
}}
Baen Books is an American publishing house for science fiction and fantasy. In science fiction, it emphasizes space opera, hard science fiction, and military science fiction.
A tercet is composed of three lines of poetry, forming a stanza or a complete poem.William Baer, Writing metrical poetry: contemporary lessons for mastering traditional forms, 2006, &quot;Chapet 9: The Tercet&quot; pp 128ff.
Roadrunners are birds of the genus Geococcyx.
Graves' disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter, is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It frequently results in and is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism.
Elias gamma code is a universal code encoding positive integers developed by Peter Elias. It is used most commonly when coding integers whose upper-bound cannot be determined beforehand.
All The People of Somerset)
, NYCBlack, Johnny, Classic Tracks Back To Back Singles. Thunder Bay Press.
Duomo (, ) is a term for an Italian cathedral church.Giacomo Devoto, Gian Carlo Oli, Il Devoto-Oli.
Elias delta code is a universal code encoding the positive integers developed by Peter Elias.
Sidney Altman. nobelprize.
In fluid mechanics, a fluid is said to be in hydrostatic equilibrium or hydrostatic balance when it is at rest, or when the flow velocity at each point is constant over time. This occurs when external forces such as gravity are balanced by a pressure gradient force.
A map projection is a systematic transformation of the latitudes and longitudes of locations from the surface of a sphere or an ellipsoid into locations on a plane.
Flintstone}}
E.164 is an ITU-T recommendation, titled The international public telecommunication numbering plan, that defines a numbering plan for the world-wide public switched telephone network (PSTN) and some other data networks.
Side-scan sonar (also sometimes called side scan sonar, sidescan sonar, side  imaging sonar, side-imaging sonar and bottom classification sonar) is a category of sonar system that is used to efficiently create an image of large areas of the sea floor.
Underwater archaeology is archaeology practiced underwater. As with all other branches of archaeology, it evolved from its roots in pre-history and in the classical era to include sites from the historical and industrial eras.
Since 1840, when the Penny Black featured a profile of Queen Victoria, it has been a tradition worldwide for nations to honor individuals on their postage stamps. Typical choices include monarchs, important figures of history, politicians, cultural leaders, and (more recently) celebrities.
}}
The Fokker Dr.I (Dreidecker, &quot;triplane&quot; in German) was a World War I fighter aircraft built by Fokker-Flugzeugwerke.
An amphora (Greek: Αμφορέας, English plural: amphorae or amphoras) is a type of container of a characteristic shape and size, descending from at least as early as the Neolithic Period. Amphorae were used in vast numbers for the transport and storage of various products, both liquid and dry, but mostly for wine.
}}
border
(aged 68)
Rodinia (from the Russian &quot;Родина&quot;, ródina, meaning &quot;The Motherland&quot;) is a Neoproterozoic supercontinent that was assembled 1.3–0.
200 AD
Acme}}
Hans Dürer (born February 21, 1490 in Nuremberg - ca. 1538 in Kraków), was a German Renaissance painter, illustrator, and engraver.
Maurice LaMarche (1991)Greg Burson (1992–1997)Frank Gorshin (1996)Dee Bradley Baker (1996, 2015–present)Samuel Vincent (2001–2006)Jeff Bennett (2004)(see below)
Billy West (2004)(see below)
Hans Suess, known as Hans von Kulmbach, was a German artist. He was born around 1480 in Kulmbach, Franconia and died prior to 3 December 1522 in Nuremberg.
}}}}
Pavement}}
The names &quot;John Doe&quot; or &quot;John Roe&quot; for men, &quot;Jane Doe&quot; or &quot;Jane Roe&quot; for women, &quot;Johnny Doe&quot; and &quot;Janie Doe&quot; for children, or just &quot;Doe&quot; non-gender-specifically are used as placeholder names for a party whose true identity is unknown or must be withheld in a legal action, case, or discussion. The names are also used to refer to a corpse or hospital patient whose identity is unknown.
Jane Doe is a placeholder name for a female party whose true identity is unknown or must be withheld.
Acme may refer to:
}}
}}
Giant Food may refer to:
A paper clip (or sometimes paperclip) is an instrument used to hold sheets of paper together, usually made of steel wire bent to a looped shape. Most paper clips are variations of the Gem type introduced in the 1890s or earlier, characterized by the almost two full loops made by the wire.
In cricket, a googly (or wrong 'un) is a type of deceptive delivery bowled by a right-arm leg spin bowler. In Australia, it is occasionally referred to as a Bosie (or Bosey), an eponym in honour of its inventor Bernard Bosanquet.
Bowling, in cricket, is the action of propelling the ball toward the wicket defended by a batsman. A player skilled at bowling is called a bowler; a bowler who is also a competent batsman is known as an all-rounder.
Kamal Hassan Ali Ali Lutfi Mahmud Atef Sedki Kamal Ganzouri Atef Ebeid Ahmed Nazif Ahmed Shafik }}
Multiculturalism is a term used in both sociology and political philosophy and can be confused with one another. It is an ambiguous term: it can mean a cultural pluralism in which the various ethnic groups collaborate and dialog with one another without having to sacrifice their particular identities.
A textile or cloth is a flexible material consisting of a network of natural or artificial fibres (yarn or thread). Yarn is produced by spinning raw fibres of wool, flax, cotton, hemp, or other material to produce long strands.
Douglas Smith (c. 1910 - 15 October 1972) began his broadcasting career with the BBC European Service (now the World Service) in 1946 and later worked as an announcer and newsreader on the Home Service and the Third Programme.
Michael Howard (born 1941) is a British politician.
A tyrosine kinase is an enzyme that can transfer a phosphate group from ATP to a protein in a cell. It functions as an &quot;on&quot; or &quot;off&quot; switch in many cellular functions.
Quantum key distribution (QKD) uses quantum mechanics to guarantee secure communication. It enables two parties to produce a shared random secret key known only to them, which can then be used to encrypt and decrypt messages.
Legislation (or &quot;statutory law&quot;) is law which has been promulgated (or &quot;enacted&quot;) by a legislature or other governing body or the process of making it.See Article 289(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union Before an item of legislation becomes law it may be known as a bill, and may be broadly referred to as &quot;legislation&quot;, while it remains under consideration to distinguish it from other business.
BBC Light ProgrammeBBC Radio 2
A transcontinental railroad is a contiguous network of railroad trackageTrackage OnLine Def that crosses a continental land mass with terminals at different oceans or continental borders. Such networks can be via the tracks of either a single railroad, or over those owned or controlled by multiple railway companies along a continuous route.
Bill Haley &amp; His Comets were an American rock and roll band, founded in 1952 and continued until Haley's death in 1981. The band, also known as Bill Haley and the Comets and Bill Haley's Comets (and variations thereof), was the earliest group of white musicians to bring rock 'n' roll to the attention of America and the rest of the world.
René Dumont (March 13, 1904 – June 18, 2001) was a French engineer in agronomy, a sociologist, and an environmental politician.
A ring road (also known as beltline, beltway, circumferential (high)way, loop or orbital) is a road or a series of connected roads encircling a town or city.
The diplomatic history of the United States oscillated among three positions: isolation from diplomatic entanglements of other (typically European) nations (but with economic connections to the world); alliances with European and other military partners; and unilateralism, or operating on its own sovereign policy decisions. The US always was large in terms of area, but its population was small, only 4 million in 1790.
150 px|Right|thumb|Weraroa novae-zelandiae, a secotioid form of the bluing [[Psilocybe]]
(aged 50)
A kinetic energy penetrator (KEP, KE weapon, long-rod penetrator or LRP) is a type of ammunition designed to penetrate vehicle armour. Like a bullet, this ammunition does not contain explosives and uses kinetic energy to penetrate the target.
Martin John Dunwoody (born 3 November 1938) is an emeritus professor of Mathematics at the University of Southampton, England.
A hymenophore refers to the hymenium-bearing structure of a fungal fruiting body. Hymenophores can be smooth surfaces, lamellae, folds, tubes, or teeth.
Hymenomycetes was the largest class of fungi within the division Basidiomycota, but the term is no longer taxonomically relevant. Many familiar fungi belong to this class, including bracket fungi and toadstools.
thumb|300px|
Carlsbad may refer to:
thumb|right|[[lampworking|Lampworked dichroic glass bead]]
Alexander Whitelaw Robertson Trocchi ( ; 30 July 1925 – 15 April 1984) was a Scottish novelist.
}}
Jack Dee
Distributions (or generalized functions) are objects that generalize the classical notion of functions in mathematical analysis.  Distributions make it possible to differentiate functions whose derivatives do not exist in the classical sense.  In particular, any locally integrable function has a distributional derivative.  Distributions are widely used in the theory of partial differential equations, where it may be easier to establish the existence of distributional solutions than classical solutions, or appropriate classical solutions may not exist. Distributions are also important in physics and engineering where many problems naturally lead to differential equations whose solutions or initial conditions are distributions, such as the Dirac delta function (which is a distribution, not merely a function as its historical name might suggest).
Conclave may refer to:
thumb|300px|right|An enamel sign at the [[Mornington Crescent tube station|Mornington Crescent station, the game's namesake]]
James Walker}}
Weaving is a method of textile production  in which two distinct sets of yarns or threads are interlaced at right angles to form a fabric or cloth. Other methods are knitting, crocheting, felting, and braiding or plaiting.
Yarn is a long continuous length of interlocked fibres, suitable for use in the production of textiles, sewing, crocheting, knitting, weaving, embroidery, and ropemaking. Thread is a type of yarn intended for sewing by hand or machine.
This is a list of planned cities (sometimes known as planned communities or new towns) by country. Additions to this list should be cities whose overall form (as opposed to individual neighborhoods or expansions) has been determined in large part in advance on a drawing board, or which were planned to a degree which is unusual for their time and place.
Various models of deafness are rooted in either the social or biological sciences. These are the medical (or infirmity) model, the social model, and the cultural model.
Eschscholzia californica (California poppy, Californian poppy, golden poppy, California sunlight, cup of gold) is a species of flowering plant in the Papaveraceae family, native to the United States and Mexico. It is an ornamental plant and it is used medicinally and in cooking, and it became the official state flower of California in 1903.
The Eleusinian Mysteries () were initiations held every year for the cult of Demeter and Persephone based at Eleusis in ancient Greece. They are the “most famous of the secret religious rites of ancient Greece.
Professor Dr. Gero von Wilpert (13 March 1933 – 24 December 2009) was a German author, a senior lecturer in German at the University of New South Wales and, from 1980, Professor of German at the University of Sydney.
__NOTOC__
Year 224 (CCXXIV) was a leap year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Iulianus and Crispinus (or, less frequently, year 977 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 227 (CCXXVII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Senecio and Fulvius (or, less frequently, year 980 Ab urbe condita).
}}
Proper motion is the astronomical measure of the observed changes in the apparent places of stars in the sky, as seen from the center of mass of the Solar System, compared to the abstract background of the more distant stars.
In mathematics, computer science and operations research, mathematical optimization or mathematical programming, alternatively spelled optimisation, is the selection of a best element (with regard to some criterion) from some set of available alternatives.&quot;The Nature of Mathematical Programming ,&quot; Mathematical Programming Glossary, INFORMS Computing Society.
thumb|Visualization of MPEG block motion compensation. Blocks that moved from one frame to the next are shown as white arrows, making the motions of the different platforms and the character clearly visible.
Istria (; Croatian, Slovene: Istra; Istriot: Eîstria; Italian: Istria; German: Istrien), formerly Histria (Latin), is the largest peninsula in the Adriatic Sea. The peninsula is located at the head of the Adriatic between the Gulf of Trieste and the Kvarner Gulf.
A cylinder is a basic curvilinear geometric shape.
A miracle is an event not explicable by natural or scientific laws.Miracle Such an event may be attributed to a supernatural being (a deity), magic, a miracle worker, a saint or a religious leader.
Mainland Southeast Asia, also known as the Indochinese Peninsula and previously Indochina, is the continental portion of Southeast Asia lying east of India and south of China, bounded by the Indian Ocean to the west and the Pacific Ocean to the east.
(French)
An arch is a curved structure that spans an elevated space and may or may not support the weight above it.&quot;arch, n.
Embedded or embedding (alternatively imbedded or imbedding) may refer to:
Vibrio cholerae is a Gram-negative, comma-shaped bacterium. The bacterium's natural habitat is brackish or saltwater.
Antihydrogen () is the antimatter counterpart of hydrogen. Whereas the common hydrogen atom is composed of an electron and proton, the antihydrogen atom is made up of a positron and antiproton.
thumb|Cable car at [[Zell am See in the Austrian Alps]]
thumb|right|360px|Protein before and after folding.
Word play or wordplay (also: play-on-words) is a literary technique and a form of wit in which the words that are used become the main subject of the work, primarily for the purpose of intended effect or amusement. Examples of word play include puns, phonetic mix-ups such as spoonerisms, obscure words and meanings, clever rhetorical excursions, oddly formed sentences, double entendres, and telling character names (such as in the play The Importance of Being Earnest, Ernest being a given name that sounds exactly like the adjective earnest).
TDM may refer to:
XNS may refer to:
Fictionary, also known as The Dictionary Game or simply Dictionary, is a word game in which players guess the definition of an obscure word. Each round consists of one player selecting and announcing a word from the dictionary, and other players composing a fake definition for it.
Word games  (also called word game puzzles) are spoken or board games often designed to test ability with language or to explore its properties.
Charades (, ). is a parlor or party word guessing game.
Prose is a form of language that exhibits a natural flow of speech and grammatical structure, rather than a rhythmic structure as in traditional poetry. Where the common unit of verse is based on meter or rhyme, the common unit of prose is purely grammatical, such as a sentence or paragraph.
The Cree (; ) are one of the largest groups of First Nations in North America, with over 200,000 members living in Canada. The major proportion of Cree in Canada live north and west of Lake Superior, in Ontario, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Alberta and the Northwest Territories.
John Calhoun was the 7th Vice President of the United States.
A vice president (in British English: vice-president for governments and director for businesses) is an officer in government or business who is below a president (managing director) in rank. The name comes from the Latin vice meaning &quot;in place of&quot;.
The Algonquian languages ( or ;
In mathematics, an embedding (or imbedding suggests that &quot;the English&quot; (i.e.
}}
Year 228 (CCXXVIII) was a leap year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Modestus and Maecius (or, less frequently, year 981 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
The Video Home SystemIEEE History Center: Development of VHS, cites the original name as &quot;Video Home System&quot;, from an article by Yuma Shiraishi, one of its inventors. Retrieved December 28, 2006.
__NOTOC__
__FORCETOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Citrus is a genus of flowering trees and shrubs in the rue family, Rutaceae. Plants in the genus produce citrus fruits, including important crops like oranges, lemons, grapefruit, pomelo and limes.
The GSI Helmholtz Centre for Heavy Ion Research () is a federally and state co-funded heavy ion () research center in the Arheilgen suburb of Darmstadt, Germany. It was founded in 1969 as the Society for Heavy Ion Research (), abbreviated GSI, to conduct research on and with heavy-ion accelerators.
The United Nations Iraq–Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM) was established on April 9, 1991 following the Gulf War by Security Council Resolution 689 (1991) and fully deployed by early May 1991.
thumb|Smoke rising in [[Lochcarron, Scotland, is stopped by an overlying layer of warmer air (2006).]]
A megacity is usually defined as a metropolitan area with a total population in excess of ten million people.&quot;How Big Can Cities Get?
The sawtooth wave (or saw wave) is a kind of non-sinusoidal waveform. It is so named based on its resemblance to the teeth of a plain-toothed saw with a zero rake angle.
The Battle of Covadonga was the first victory by Christendom military forces in Iberia since the Islamic conquest of Hispania in 711–718. It was fought at Covadonga, most likely in the summer of 722.
thumb|400px|A bandlimited triangle wave pictured in the time domain (top) and frequency domain (bottom). The fundamental is at 220 Hz (A3).
A slater is a tradesman who works with slate.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
A grook (&quot;gruk&quot; in Danish) is a form of short aphoristic poem or rhyming aphorism, created by the Danish poet, designer, inventor and scientist Piet Hein, who wrote over 7000 of them, mostly in Danish or English. They have been published in 20 volumes.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
Natantia (Boas, 1880) is an obsolete taxon of decapod crustaceans, comprising those families that move predominantly by swimming – the shrimp (comprising Caridea and Procarididea), prawns (Dendrobranchiata) and boxer shrimp. The remaining Decapoda were placed in the Reptantia, and consisted of crabs, lobsters and other large animals that move chiefly by walking along the bottom.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
thumb|300px|Eastern Hemisphere in 1300 BC.
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
==Events and trends==
The 790s BC witnessed the surging power of the Neo-Assyrian Empire, albeit a brief moment of weakness following in subsequent decades, the further decadence of Egypt, and the beginnings of civilization with the rise of the city-states in Ancient Greece.
==Events and trends==
The 20th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2000 BC to 1901 BC.
Perfect square is an element of algebraic structure which is equal to the square of another element.
thumb|The smallest (and unique [[up to rotation and reflection) non-trivial case of a magic square, measuring 3×3]]
A nanowire is a nanostructure, with the diameter of the order of a nanometer (10−9 meters). It can also be defined as the ratio of the length to width being greater than 1000.
A superellipse, also known as a Lamé curve after Gabriel Lamé, is a closed curve resembling the ellipse, retaining the geometric features of semi-major axis and semi-minor axis, and symmetry about them, but a different overall shape.
–, 1936–1938
In economics, the free-rider problem occurs when those who benefit from resources, goods, or services do not pay for them, which results in an underprovision of those goods or services. For example, a free-rider may frequently ask for available parking lots (public goods) from the ones who have already paid for them, in order to benefit from free parking.
Corporate welfare is a term that analogizes corporate subsidies to welfare payments for the poor. The term is often used to describe a government's bestowal of money grants, tax breaks, or other special favorable treatment for corporations.
(paperback)
Trade dress is a legal term of art that generally refers to characteristics of the visual appearance of a product or its packaging (or even the design of a building) that signify the source of the product to consumers. Trade dress is a form of intellectual property.
SourceForge Enterprise Edition was a proprietary collaborative version control and software development forge management system. It provides a front-end to a range of software development lifecycle services and integrates with a number of free software / open source software applications (such as PostgreSQL and Subversion).
or  (redirect)
A  chief executive officer (CEO) is the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, leader or administrator in charge of managing an organization. CEOs lead a range of organizations, including public and private corporations, non-profit organizations and even some government organizations (e.
A hoax is a deliberately fabricated falsehood made to masquerade as the truth. It is distinguishable from errors in observation or judgment,  rumors, urban legends, pseudosciences, and April Fools' Day events that are passed along in good faith by believers or as jokes.
Motor racing describes various forms of motor-powered racing:
Touring car racing is an auto racing competition with heavily modified road-going cars.  It is popular in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Britain, Germany, Sweden and Norway.
Sports car racing is a form of circuit auto racing with sports cars that have two seats and enclosed wheels. They may be purpose-built (Prototype) or related to road-going models (Grand Touring).
Rallying is a form of motorsport that takes place on public or private roads with modified production or specially built road-legal cars. It is distinguished by running not on a circuit, but instead in a point-to-point format in which participants and their co-drivers drive between set control points (special stages), leaving at regular intervals from one or more start points.
.
Sow may refer to:
Piglet may refer to:
Database entry includes a brief justification of why this species is of least concern.
==In farming==
Hog may refer to:
)
Pica or PICA may refer to:
()
Jansenism was a Catholic theological movement, primarily in France, that emphasized original sin, human depravity, the necessity of divine grace, and predestination. The movement originated from the posthumously published work of the Dutch theologian Cornelius Jansen, who died in 1638.
Perthshire (; ), officially the County of Perth, is a historic county and registration county in central Scotland. It extends from Strathmore in the east, to the Pass of Drumochter in the north, Rannoch Moor and Ben Lui in the west, and Aberfoyle in the south.
Herod is a name used by several kings belonging to the Herodian Dynasty of the Roman province of Judaea:
) is the art of paper folding, which is often associated with Japanese culture. In modern usage, the word &quot;origami&quot; is used as an inclusive term for all folding practices, regardless of their culture of origin.
Day of the Dead () is a Mexican holiday celebrated throughout Mexico, in particular the Central and South regions, and by people of Mexican ancestry living in other places, especially the United States. It is acknowledged internationally in many other cultures.
Rafflesia is a genus of parasitic flowering plants. It contains approximately 28 species (including four incompletely characterized species as recognized by Willem Meijer in 1997), all found in southeastern Asia, in Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines.
Mathematical Markup Language (MathML) is a mathematical markup language, an application of XML for describing mathematical notations and capturing both its structure and content. It aims at integrating mathematical formulae into World Wide Web pages and other documents.
-
Representative democracy (also indirect democracy, representative republic, or psephocracy) is a type of democracy founded on the principle of elected officials representing a group of people, as opposed to direct democracy. Nearly all modern Western-style democracies are types of representative democracies; for example, the United Kingdom is a constitutional monarchy, Ireland is a parliamentary republic, and the United States is a federal republic.
Multichannel may refer to:
In the United Kingdom, non-departmental public body (NDPB) is a classification applied by the Cabinet Office, Treasury, the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to quangos (quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisations). NDPBs are not an integral part of any government department and carry out their work at arm's length from ministers, although ministers are ultimately responsible to Parliament for the activities of bodies sponsored by their department.
In algebra, a cyclic group or monogenous group is a group that is generated by a single element. That is, it consists of a set of elements with a single invertible associative operation, and it contains an element g such that every other element of the group may be obtained by repeatedly applying the group operation or its inverse to g.
A stock market, equity market or share market is the aggregation of buyers and sellers (a loose network of economic transactions, not a physical facility or discrete entity) of stocks (also called shares), which represent ownership claims on businesses; these may include securities listed on a public stock exchange as well as those only traded privately. Examples of the latter include shares of private companies which are sold to investors through equity crowdfunding platforms.
Allegany County is a county in the southern tier of the U.S.
A robber baron or robber knight (German Raubritter) was an unscrupulous feudal landowner who resorted to banditry while protected by his fief's legal status. Medieval robber barons robbed merchants, land travelers, and river traffic.
Broome County is a county in the U.S.
Cattaraugus County is a county in the western part of the U.S.
Cayuga County is a county in the U.S.
Chautauqua County is the westernmost county in the U.S.
Idiolect is an individual's distinctive and unique use of language, including speech. This unique usage encompasses vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation.
The Brahmic scripts are a family of abugida or alphabet writing systems. They are used throughout the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia and parts of East Asia, including Japan in the form of Siddhaṃ.
Nebuchadnezzar II (from Akkadian  Nabû-kudurri-uṣur), meaning &quot;O god Nabu, preserve/defend my firstborn son&quot;) was king of Babylon c. 605 BC – c.
Gaspar Corte-Real (1450 – 1501) was a Portuguese explorer. Gaspar Corte-Real, alongside his father João Vaz Corte-Real (c.
Ogimachi may refer to:
The most renowned Trinity Collegehttps://www.topuniversities.
Eroticism (from the Greek  ἔρως, eros—&quot;desire&quot;) is a quality that causes sexual feelings, as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire, sensuality and romantic love. That quality may be found in any form of artwork, including painting, sculpture, photography, drama, film, music or literature.
The imaginary unit or unit imaginary number () is a solution to the quadratic equation  0}}.  Since there is no real number with this property, it extends the real numbers, and under the assumption that the familiar properties of addition and multiplication (namely closure, associativity, commutativity and distributivity) continue to hold for this extension, the complex numbers are generated by including it.
border
thumb|400px|A satellite image of circular fields characteristic of center pivot irrigation, Kansas.
In axiomatic set theory and the branches of logic, mathematics, and computer science that use it, the axiom of extensionality, or axiom of extension, is one of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory.
thumb|A thermite mixture using iron (III) oxide
The Watergate scandal was a major political scandal that occurred in the United States in the early 1970s, following a break-in at the Democratic National Committee (DNC) headquarters at the Watergate office complex in Washington, D.C.
In axiomatic set theory and the branches of logic, mathematics, and computer science that use it, the axiom of pairing is one of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory. It was introduced by  as a special case of his axiom of elementary sets.
In many popular versions of axiomatic set theory the axiom schema of specification, also known as the axiom schema of separation, subset axiom scheme or axiom schema of restricted comprehension is an axiom schema.  Essentially, it says that any definable subclass of a set is a set.
In set theory, the axiom schema of replacement is a schema of axioms in Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory (ZF) that asserts that the image of any set under any definable mapping is also a set. It is necessary for the construction of certain infinite sets in ZF.
Martha Argerich (born June 5, 1941) is an Argentine classical pianist, who is widely regarded as one of the greatest pianists of the second half of the 20th century.
A public holiday, national holiday or legal holiday is a holiday generally established by law and is usually a non-working day during the year.
Day of Atonement may refer to:
A hairstyle, hairdo, or haircut refers to the styling of hair, usually on the human scalp. Sometimes, this could also mean an editing of beard hair.
The 24th century BC was a century which lasted from the year 2400 BC to 2301 BC.
==Predicted and scheduled events==
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
==Predicted and scheduled events==
== Predicted and scheduled events ==
The 2070s is a decade of the Gregorian calendar that will begin on January 1, 2070 and will end on December 31, 2079.
__NOTOC__
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Births==
==Predicted and scheduled events==
==Predicted and scheduled events==
In mathematics, Tait's conjecture states that &quot;Every 3-connected planar cubic graph has a Hamiltonian cycle (along the edges) through all its vertices&quot;. It was proposed by  and disproved by , who constructed a counterexample with 25 faces, 69 edges and 46 vertices.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 433 (CDXXXIII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Theodosius and Maximus (or, less frequently, year 1186 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Year 449 (CDXLIX) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Astyrius and Romanus (or, less frequently, year 1202 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
Year 469 (CDLXIX) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Marcianus and Zeno (or, less frequently, year 1222 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
The European colonisation of the Americas describes the history of the settlement and establishment of control of the continents of the Americas by various European powers. Starting in either the 10th or 11th century, when West Norse sailors explored and briefly settled on the shores of present-day Canada, according to Icelandic Sagas, violent conflicts with the indigenous population ultimately led to the Norse abandoning those settlements.
__NOTOC__
Year 933 (CMXXXIII) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 936 (CMXXXVI) was a leap year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The Russian colonization of the Americas covers the period from 1732 to 1867, when the Russian Empire laid claim to northern Pacific Coast territories in the Americas. Russian colonial possessions in the Americas are collectively known as Russian America.
, mostly in Indonesia
Year 945 (CMXLV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
thumb|Two dwarfs as depicted in a 19th-century edition of the [[Poetic Edda poem Völuspá (1895) by Lorenz Frølich.]]
Year 934 (CMXXXIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 937 (CMXXXVII) was a common year starting on Sunday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
The Counter-Earth is a hypothetical body of the Solar system hypothesized by the pre-Socratic Greek philosopher Philolaus (c. 470 – c.
The French colonization of the Americas began in the 16th century, and continued on into the following centuries as France established a colonial empire in the Western Hemisphere. France founded colonies in much of eastern North America, on a number of Caribbean islands, and in South America.
Year 938 (CMXXXVIII) was a common year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Observational learning is learning that occurs through observing the behavior of others. It is a form of social learning which takes various forms, based on various processes.
Year 942 (CMXLII) was a common year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
Year 444 (CDXLIV) was a leap year starting on Saturday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Theodosius and Aginatius (or, less frequently, year 1197 Ab urbe condita).
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
thumbnail|right|Hunting and whaling have always been important ways to make a living on Greenland. One of the animals found here is the [[polar bear, which is on the coat of arms of the Danish royal family in Greenland]] The history of Greenland is a history of life under extreme Arctic conditions: currently, an ice cap covers about 80 percent of the island, restricting human activity largely to the coasts.
The history of Canada covers the period from the arrival of Paleo-Indians thousands of years ago to the present day. Prior to European colonization, the lands encompassing present-day Canada were inhabited for millennia by Indigenous peoples, with distinct trade networks, spiritual beliefs, and styles of social organization.
Dutch trading posts and plantations in the Americas precede the much wider known colonization activities of the Dutch in Asia. While the first Dutch fort in Asia was built in 1600 (in present-day Indonesia), the first forts and settlements on the Essequibo River in Guyana date from the 1590s.
}}
left|thumb|400px|Denmark–Norway's possessions c. 1800
The early history of Suriname dates from 3000 BCE when Native Americans first inhabited the area. The Dutch acquired Suriname from the English, and European settlement in any numbers dates from the seventeenth century, when it was a plantation colony utilizing slavery for sugar cultivation.
Pavlov (or its variant Pavliv) may refer to:
Non-repudiation refers to a state of affairs where the author of a statement will not be able to successfully challenge the authorship of the statement or validity of an associated contract.  The term is often seen in a legal setting wherein the authenticity of a signature is being challenged.
Gor  is the Counter-Earth setting for an extended series of sword and planet novels by author and philosophy professor John Norman.  The series is inspired particularly by the Barsoom series and Almuric, but is also known for its content combining philosophy, erotica, and science fantasy.
A fork, in cutlery or kitchenware, is a tool consisting of a handle with several narrow tines on one end. The usually metal utensil is used to lift food to the mouth or to hold ingredients in place while they are being cut by a knife.
Gwent may refer to:
The British colonization of the Americas (including colonization by both the English and the Scots) began in 1607 in Jamestown, Virginia and reached its peak when colonies had been established throughout the Americas. The British were among the most important colonizers of the Americas, and their American empire came to rival the Spanish American colonies in military and economic might.
thumb|250px|right|A 19th-century children's book informs its readers that the [[Dutch people| Dutch were a very industrious race, and that  Chinese children were very obedient to their parents (implicitly, relative to the  British).]]
Bar Mitzvah () and Bat Mitzvah () (Ashkenazi pronunciation: &quot;Bas Mitzvah&quot;) (plural: B'nai Mitzvah for boys, and B'not Mitzvah – Ashkenazi pronunciation: &quot;B'nos Mitzvah&quot; – for girls) are Jewish coming of age rituals.
In axiomatic set theory, the axiom of empty set is an axiom of Kripke–Platek set theory and the variant of general set theory that Burgess (2005) calls &quot;ST,&quot; and a demonstrable truth in Zermelo set theory and Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, with or without the axiom of choice.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Semiology (from Greek σημεῖον sēmeion, &quot;a sign, a mark&quot;) is a branch of Gregorian Chant research. Semiology refers specifically to the study of the neumes as found in the earliest fully notated manuscripts of Gregorian Chant, the oldest of which have been dated to the 9th century.
*
In mathematics, the axiom of power set is one of the Zermelo–Fraenkel axioms of axiomatic set theory.
In axiomatic set theory, the axiom of union is one of the axioms of Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, stating that, for any set x there is a set y whose elements are precisely the elements of the elements of x. It was introduced by .
The Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA), known as the Defense Communications Agency (DCA) until 1991, is a United States Department of Defense (DoD) combat support agency composed of military, federal civilians, and contractors. DISA provides information technology (IT) and communications support to the President, Vice President, Secretary of Defense, the military services, the combatant commands, and any individual or system contributing to the defense of the United States.
In mathematics, a partial differential equation (PDE) is a differential equation that contains unknown multivariable functions and their partial derivatives. (A special case are ordinary differential equations (ODEs), which deal with functions of a single variable and their derivatives.
In mathematics, a partial derivative of a function of several variables is its derivative with respect to one of those variables, with the others held constant (as opposed to the total derivative, in which all variables are allowed to vary). Partial derivatives are used in vector calculus and differential geometry.
John Anton Goldsmith is the Edward Carson Waller Distinguished Service Professor at the University of Chicago, with appointments in linguistics and computer science. His Ph.
Autosegmental phonology is a framework of phonological analysis proposed by John Goldsmith in his PhD thesis in 1976 at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Agent may refer to:
A halogen lamp, also known as a tungsten halogen, quartz-halogen or quartz iodine lamp, is an incandescent lamp consisting of a tungsten filament sealed into a compact transparent envelope that is filled with a mixture of an inert gas and a small amount of a halogen such as iodine or bromine. The combination of the halogen gas and the tungsten filament produces a halogen cycle chemical reaction which redeposits evaporated tungsten to the filament, increasing its life and maintaining the clarity of the envelope.
The Sound Pattern of English (frequently referred to as SPE) is a 1968 work on phonology (a branch of linguistics) by Noam Chomsky and Morris Halle. It presents a view of the phonology of English, and has been very influential in both the field of phonology and in the analysis of the English language.
thumb|right|382x382px|The real line
Smiths}}
__NOTOC__
Year 941 (CMXLI) was a common year starting on Friday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
thumb|200px|Thespis' wagon, relief of the [[Giotto's Belltower in Florence, Italy, Nino Pisano, 1334–1336]]
Year 940 (CMXL) was a leap year starting on Wednesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
Year 944 (CMXLIV) was a leap year starting on Monday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar.
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
The Population Bomb is a best-selling book written by Stanford University Professor Paul R. Ehrlich and his wife, Anne Ehrlich (who was uncredited), in 1968.
__NOTOC__
}}
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
__NOTOC__
Monoculture is the agricultural practice of producing or growing a single crop, plant, or livestock species, variety, or breed in a field or farming system at a time. Polyculture, where more than one crop is grown in the same space at the same time, is the alternative to monoculture.
The River Afan is a river in Wales whose river valley formed the territory of the medieval Lords of Afan. The Afan Valley encompasses the upper reaches of the river.
The London boroughs are 32 of the 33 local authority districts of the Greater London administrative area (the 33rd is the City of London) and are each governed by a London borough council. The London boroughs were all created at the same time as Greater London on 1 April 1965 by the London Government Act 1963 and are a type of local government district.
Gower () electoral ward is an electoral ward in Britain. It is a ward of the City and County of Swansea, and comprises the  western part of the Gower Peninsula.
border
}}