Title: Cemitério de Navios (The Ship Cemetery)
Description: Abandoned ships along a deserted beach feel like the set of a post-apocalyptic thriller.
Content: About a 30-minute drive north of Luanda, Angola, is an otherworldly sight: A barren beach with as many as 50 rusting ships on or near the shore. It’s like being on the set of a post-apocalyptic Hollywood thriller. Some of the ships are close enough that you can wade out to them at low tide, while others are further out with not much more than a rusting bridge or masthead above the surface of the ocean.
The spot is officially known as SãoTiago Beach, near the town of Santiago. But the locals call it cemitério de navios, or the ship cemetery. A few like to call it “Marx Beach,” after the Karl Marx, one of the largest ships there.
There are a number of stories as to the background of the ship cemetery at São Tiago Beach. Some say that prior to the construction of the Port of Luanda, Santiago Beach was the spot where ocean-going freighters would offload cargo bound for the country’s capital. According to this narrative, the spot was not ideal and many ships blew or were washed aground during storms or heavy seas. When the Port of Luanda was opened after the end of the Angolan Civil War in 2002, the ships that had run aground were simply abandoned.
Others say that the spot has been a designated ship cemetery since the 1960s. Damaged or derelict vessels were towed to what was, at the time,  an uninhabited stretch of beach and left to rust away. According to the locals, some of the ships at SãoTiago Beach were damaged or destroyed during the war.
In any case, the ships at São Tiago Beach were put or left there intentionally, which makes the place a true ship cemetery despite the varied accounts of its origins.
Reaching this spot typically requires access to a vehicle and the help of a local who knows the area, as it is not a well-known attraction at this time. Sao Tiago Beach is located near the town of São Tiago, about a 30-minute drive north of Luanda. As you cross the border from Luanda into Bengo Province, there are a number of turn-offs to the left just south of town, nearly all of which will eventually lead to the beach.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Iron Palace
Description: Did Gustav Eiffel design this enigmatic metal building?
Content: You might not know it from the outside, what with the loud, yellow paint job, but Angola’s Palácio de Ferro (Iron Palace) is made almost entirely of iron, and if the rumor is to be believed, it was the work of Gustav Eiffel. 
The true origin of the two-story building now known as the Iron Palace may be lost to time, but its arrival in Angola seems to have been just plain bad luck. Built some time in the late 1800s, the metal edifice is thought to have shown up on the Skeleton Coast after the ship carrying its prebuilt parts drifted off course and was claimed by Portuguese authorities. While there is no official record, it is believed that the building had been designed and built in Paris by the same man who created the Eiffel Tower. 
At first the building was used as a cultural center, but eventually it was abandoned and began to rust away in the humid air. For decades, the palace was neglected and began to deteriorate. However the building was revamped and repaired in the 2010s with the help of a diamond company as well as municipal funds, reopening its doors to visitors in 2016.
But the work isn’t done yet, as no one has yet decided how the building is to be used. The two options on the table now are for the building to be used as a diamond museum or as a huge restaurant. Either way, we might never truly know whether we have Gustav Eiffel to thank.
----------------------------------------
Title: War Remnants of 'Operation Protea'
Description: The abandoned tanks along this highway are all that remain of a deadly conflict.
Content: In the early 1980s, Xangongo was home to a complex of supply bases and training facilities under the South West Africa People’s Organization (SWAPO). In late August through early September of 1981, the entire area came under intense attack by the South African Defense Force (SADF) in what was known as “Operation Protea.” It was a dramatic battle of the Angolan Civil War and the South African Border War.
The Angolan conflict officially ended in 2002, and in the intervening years most of the war remnants across the country were removed, and in some cases replaced with monuments. Cunene Province and Xangongo in particular, are the exceptions. Throughout Cunene are the remains of military vehicles destroyed or disabled during the war.
Locals who have lived in the area since the 1980s, and veterans of that period of the Angolan war confirm that the tank and convoy remains in Cunene are, in fact, from Operation Protea. There is a small, nondescript monument to the lives lost in the conflict near the center of Mongua, a tiny town roughly midway between Onjiva and Xangongo. 
These days, most of what’s left are simply rusted out hulks along the roads of Cunene. They slowly sink beneath the windblown sand as silent, brooding testimonies to the battles that once raged around them. Some sites are eerily abandoned, with no signs that anyone has been there in ages.
While you can find abandoned war vehicles throughout Cunene, most are concentrated along the main road between Onjiva and Xangongo. There are also several fairly intact tanks on the roads between Onjiva, Namacunde, and Nehone.
----------------------------------------
Title: Miradouro da Lua (Viewpoint of the Moon)
Description: This striking otherworldly landscape outside Angola's capital city is the product of millions of years of erosion.
Content: About 25 miles outside Angola’s capital city of Luanda lies an otherworldly landscape. Erosion from wind and rain over thousands of years has carved canyons and ridges out of weathered rock just footsteps off the main road. Miradouro da Lua, Portuguese for “Viewpoint of the Moon,” shows off different colored strata of rock that wrap around an expansive panorama.
From the cliffside, you can see the unusual rock formations that diminish in size as they stretch to the sea. This is known as a karst landscape, which forms from slowly dissolved limestone and other semi-soluble rocks. The actual topography spans a few miles, following the same cliffs that separate the main road from the beach, but Miradouro da Lua is the best location to see the full splendor of the moon-like landscape.
The sharp ravines and striking geography are best viewed at sunset, when the fading sunlight paints them a bright, gleaming red. Miradouro da Lua’s beauty was further immortalized in the final scene of a 1993 film of the same name that examines the relationship between Angola and its Portuguese colonizers through the story of one family.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ilha dos Tigres
Description: In 1962, the ocean severed this peninsula—and the village that sat on it—from the Angolan mainland.
Content: Along the isolated coastline of the Namib Desert stands Ilha dos Tigres. Once home to a prosperous fishing village, housing a school, hospital, airstrip, and chapel, the island is now nothing but skeletal ruins jutting out of the sand. It was established in the 1860s by fishermen from Portugal. The settlement lasted for almost a century, with its final inhabitants relocating in the 1970s.
Ilha dos Tigres sits upon is a strange piece of land. Over the years its shape and the tidal currents have caused it to become linked to the mainland, then back into an island periodically. It has been in its current island state since the 1960s, when a large storm came through the area, also destroying the pipe that supplied the village with drinking water. The civil war caused its eventual complete abandonment.
Currently, the ruins of the village still stand, isolated and largely ignored, as they are incredibly difficult to access.
----------------------------------------
Title: Quedas de Calandula
Description: This horseshoe-shaped waterfall is the second-largest on the African continent.
Content: The second-largest waterfall on the African continent is still a hidden gem due to Angola’s closed-off policies and past years of civil war. Quedas de Calandula, or Calandula Falls, can be enjoyed with minimal tourists, something that is unheard of for a natural wonder of this scale.
This massive, horseshoe-shaped waterfall measures 105 meters (344 feet) high and 400 meters (1,300 feet) wide. It’s located along the Lucala River, a tributary of the Cuanza River, the country’s largest.
They are located in the Malanje province of Angola, which is home to Cangandala National Park and the Luando Nature Reserve, which has played an important role in the preservation of the giant sable.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Nyos
Description: Deadliest lake in the world suffocated over 1,746 people in one night.
Content: “I could not speak. I became unconscious. I could not open my mouth because then I smelled something terrible … I heard my daughter snoring in a terrible way, very abnormal.... When crossing to my daughter’s bed … I collapsed and fell … I wanted to speak, my breath would not come out.... My daughter was already dead.”
These are the words of Joseph Nkwain, who on August 21, 1986, survived one of the strangest natural disasters in history.
Known locally as “the Bad Lake,” Lake Nyos, located in the Northwest Region of Cameroon, Africa, carried a folklore of danger, and tales were spoken of an evil spirit which emerged from the lake to kill all those who lived near it. This legend contained the memory of a very real threat.
Lake Nyos was formed in a volcanic crater created as recently as 400 years ago.  Crater lakes commonly have high levels of CO2, as they are formed by the volcanic activity happening miles beneath them. Under normal circumstances this gas is released over time as the lake water turns over.
But Lake Nyos is different: it is an unusually still lake, with little in the way of environmental agitation. Rather than releasing the gas, the lake was acting as a high-pressure storage unit. Its deep waters were becoming ever more loaded with gas until more than five gallons of CO2 were dissolved in every gallon of water. Pressurized to the physical limit, Lake Nyos was a time bomb.
On August 21, 1986, something in the lake went off. It is unknown what the trigger was–landslide, small volcanic eruption, or even something as small as cold rain falling on an edge of the lake. Whatever the cause, the result was catastrophic. In what is known as a Limnic Eruption, the lake literally exploded, sending a fountain of water over 300 feet into the air and creating a small tsunami. But far more deadly than the water was the gas.
Some 1.2 cubic kilometers of CO2 was released in roughly 20 seconds. This massive wave of deadly gas swept over the countryside. Villages near the lake had almost no chance of survival, and in nearby Nyos only six out of 800 survived. (Those who did survive mostly did so by quickly escaping to higher ground on motorcycles.) As the CO2 settled, every flame and fire was immediately extinguished, a sign of the doom descending all around Lake Nyos.
The cloud spread far and wide, killing people who were as far as 25 km away from the lake. Nearby villagers who came out of their houses to find out what the sound they had heard was were overtaken by wafting clouds of gas and fell dead at their doorsteps. People taking naps were killed without their relatives even realizing anything had happened, as the gas settled on the ground with enough concentration to kill, but leaving those standing unaffected.
In all, 1,746 people were killed. The villages of Nyos, Kam, Cha, and Subum were all but wiped out, and more than 3,500 livestock animals perished in a matter of minutes. The lake itself turned from a clear blue to a deep red, a change that was caused by iron churned up from the bottom, symbolic of the violence of the natural event.
Since this disastrous event the lake has been monitored, and a simple degassing solution put in place. A pipe has been installed in Lake Nyos that runs to the bottom of the lake, allowing the gas to escape at a regular rate. Due to the pressurized nature of the gas, it creates a rather lovely CO2-powered fountain of water.
However, this may not be enough. The lake is once again at CO2 levels higher than in 1986, and a natural dam on the lake is in danger of failing. This would cause the double disaster of both flooding and gassing simultaneously.
Also worrisome is Lake Kivu, a lake over 1,000 times larger than Nyos and in a much more populous area. It has been shown to have a historical record of causing creatures in the lake to go extinct approximately every thousand years. Scientists believe that a volcanic disturbance could cause the same kind of event seen at Nyos but on a much, much larger scale. The only question is when.
The Atlas Obscura Podcast is a short, daily celebration of all the world’s strange and wondrous places. Check out this episode about Lake Nyos.
----------------------------------------
Title: Man & Woman Lakes
Description: Spirits from these lakes are said to produce the local weather and odd phenomena as they bicker between themselves.
Content: Just a few kilometers outside the town of Bangem, above the smaller town of Mbat is the peak Mount Manengouba, a dormant volcano with an expansive caldera at its peak. In the caldera’s plain are two deep, markedly different crater lakes: Man Lake and Woman Lake.
Even at first glance, the lakes appearances and respective atmospheres provide a solid foundation for the traditional lore espoused by the local Bakossi people, standing as a testament to the ancient and profound bad blood running between Man and Woman Lakes’ spirits.
The larger of the two, Woman Lake’s has a pristine accessible shoreline that provides fish, crab and water for the local herdsmen and their cattle. Woman Lake’s surface glistens in the sunshine as breezes ripple its waters.
Standing in stark contrast is Man Lake. On the same sunny day, Man Lake’s surface remains flat, unreflective and opaque. Daily, its water color oscillates between black, green, and brown depending on the spirit’s mood. Man Lake’s shores are impossibly steep, preventing anyone from reaching its waters without falling. While bathing in Woman Lake is a common occurrence, bathing in man lake is reserved for ceremonies and spiritual men.
Moreover, the spirit is said to protect his waters from disturbance, as nothing floats on the lake’s surface nor can rocks thrown from the rim (no matter how hard or accurately) reach its waters. It’s as if a field deflects all such attempts, though once fallen into, Man Lake’s waters provide no avenue for escape. Why Man Lake should be such a moody, and unforgiving spirit is unclear.
Fights between Man and Woman Lakes’ spirits are said to produce the storms that roll off the mountain, blanketing Bangem and other nearby villages.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Slave Port of Bimbia
Description: Buried deep in the forest near Limbe, this little known slave port became the point of no return for 10 percent of enslaved Africans.
Content: On the shores of the Atlantic, near the seaside city of Limbe, Cameroon, lies the Bimbia Bonadikombo community forest. In the 18th century, Bimbia was a slave trade port, where historians have confirmed that at least 10 percent of enslaved Africans passed through, before being forced onto boats sailing to Europe and the Americas.
Although covered in overgrown bamboo, bush, and vegetation, the ruins of this coastal slave port are intact. From chains that are almost two meters long to the bells and bracelets still visible, the pain and hardships of those who were enslaved become even clearer. The pillars of the prisons still stand tall.
Unlike the island of Gorée off the coast of Senegal and Cape Coast Castle in Ghana, this slave trading port off the coast of Cameroon is relatively unknown. In the late 1970s, only a small number of historians had identified the remnants of the site, discovered during work on the site of the baptist church dedicated to British missionary Alfred Saker. A little over 10 years ago, Dr. Lisa Aubrey, who was on Fulbright at the University of Yaoundé I at the time, began working with international journalist Alain Kenfack to conduct research on the significance and history of the site. Dr. Aubrey and her research team have been able to locate 166 slave ships that left the shores of Cameroon headed to the Americas. Her research also showed that many of those enslaved did not just come from the Limbe area, but also from the grassfields of inland northern and western Cameroon, going through tortuous routes.
Little has been done to develop the site as a place where tourists can easily visit. A road leading to the site has still not been constructed and local tour guides have been trying to encourage more Cameroonians to visit the site. However, In 2017, the Cameroonian government declared it a National Cultural Heritage and have also been working towards making the historical slave port a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
----------------------------------------
Title: Notre-Dame of Bangui Cathedral
Description: Amidst political unrest, this Roman Catholic Cathedral has helped organize peace talks.
Content: Built in the early 1900s, the Notre-Dame of Bangui Cathedral is a large red brick church built in the French colonial style. Above the three-door entrance is a white plaster icon of the Virgin Mary looking out from a niche. The interior of the cathedral features a crucifix and four massive windows featuring colored glass. The symmetrical double-tower design harkens back to Paris’s own Notre Dame Cathedral. 
Though today it has a population of nearly 900,000, the Central African Republic’s largest city was established as a small outpost in 1889. A 1906 decree transformed the small post into the French colony’s capital. Catholicism was introduced into the newly established colony around the same time, with the arrival of Monsignor Augouard in 1893. Augouard established the Saint-Paul mission, which opened its doors in 1894. A few years after that, the Notre-Dame of Bangui Cathedral was built in the center of the so-called “European city.” The cathedral, along with the majority of other religious buildings in Bangui, was constructed with fired bricks that are a reddish color. 
The Central African Republic is home to an estimated 2.9 million Christians today, about a third of whom are Roman Catholic. Many of these conversions happened when Catholic missionaries focused their efforts on the Central African Republic after World War I. 
Since declaring independence from France in 1960, the Central African Republic has experienced a series of conflicts. Political unrest in the 1990s prompted then-Archbishop Joachim Ndayen to begin hosting peace talks at the cathedral in 1996. Later in 1999, Pope John Paul II visited Bangui and spoke about the “difficult and complex situation” facing the country. 
Since 2012, the Central African Republic has been in the midst of a civil war spurred on in part by tensions between Muslim and Christian groups. In November 2015, Pope Francis visited the cathedral as well as the nearby Grande Mosquée de Bangui, offering a message of peace and resilience.
----------------------------------------
Title: Grande Mosquée de Bangui
Description: This mosque is an enduring symbol of Central African Republic's rich Muslim heritage.
Content: Located in the Koudoukou neighborhood of the Central African Republic capital, the Grande Mosquée de Bangui is a white and green stucco building with three minarets and gold-painted star-and-crescents adorning its roofline. Large fans cool the interior and loudspeakers mounted onto the minarets announce the call to prayer five times a day. During particularly large gatherings, worshippers will overflow into the dirt path in front of the mosque arranging their prayer mats in neat rows.
The spread of Islam in Africa spans more than a millennium. Beginning in the seventh century, Muslim Arabs made their way into North Africa. From there, Muslim traders continued to spread the religion throughout West and East Africa. What is now the Central African Republic was likely among the later regions for Islam to reach, perhaps beginning in the 17th century. Today, about 10 percent of the Central African Republic’s population is Muslim, nearly 570,000 people.
Since declaring independence from France in 1960, the Central African Republic has experienced a series of conflicts. In 2012, a civil war erupted throughout the country, spurred on in part by tensions between Muslim and Christian groups. In April 2014, the Grande Mosquée de Bangui was looted after armed peacekeepers escorted many Muslims out of the conflict zone.
On November 29, 2015, Pope Francis visited the Grande Mosquée de Bangui, as well as the nearby Notre-Dame of Bangui Cathedral. The mosque is in the PK5 district of the capital city, an area Christian militia groups have laid an ongoing siege to since 2013. Once inside the mosque, Francis preached a message of peace and harmony saying, “Christians and Muslims are brothers and sisters.” He concluded his address with the traditional Arabic greeting, “Salam alaikum!” or “peace be upon you.” Francis’s 26-hour visit to Bangui is the first time a pope has ever visited an active war zone.
----------------------------------------
Title: Guelta d'Archei
Description: Camels and crocodiles share the black waters of this stunning Saharan oasis.
Content: The Guelta d’Archei is a guelta, or oasis, in the Ennedi Plateau in northeastern Chad. For centuries, caravans have stopped in the steep-faced canyon to water their camels. Every day, hundreds of camels can be seen drinking the black water of the guelta, their grunts and bellows echoing around the canyon walls.
The mostly knee-deep water has turned black over the years due to the incessant supply of excrement offloaded by the thirsty camels. Not exactly the perfect place for a swim, then, unless you happen to be a crocodile.
Crocodiles were once widespread throughout the Sahara until the early 20th century, when increased aridity combined with human persecution led to the extinction of many local populations. The best-known remaining population in Chad is found in the Guelta d’Archei, where West African crocodiles eat the fish that thrive on the algae-rich waters of the camel-dung fertilized guelta.
Frogs also inhabit the guelta, and desert antelope can sometimes be seen drinking from the precious supply of water. With the exception of the daily camel herders, humans are scarce. Chad is one of the least visited countries in the world, and the oasis sits in the middle of the Sahara.
But for those adventurous travelers who do brave the desert for a trip to the Guelta d’Archei, the reward is a surreal landscape in one of the Sahara’s most ancient oases, as attested by the rock paintings up on the cliffs, some of which date back to the middle Holocene.
----------------------------------------
Title: Desert Lakes of Ounianga
Description: These natural wonders have taken millennia to form into the stunning marvels they are today.
Content: Eighteen lakes snake through the arid Ennedi region of Chad to form a breathtaking oasis in the middle of the Sahara Desert. Collectively they are known as the Desert Lakes of Ouianga, which make up the world’s largest permanent freshwater lake system in a desert environment.
The first sketches of these lakes date back to 1913, when French colonizers launched a geographic mapping exercise of northern Chad. The exceptional flora and fauna that flourish here are rare, partly due to reduced evaporation of the water thanks to varying mineral composition and clusters of floating reeds. About 10,000 years ago, these lakes made up a singular water basin. That geological history contributes to the unique hydrological system that sustains the lakes in an arid climate that sees less than two millimeters of rain each year.
This contained lake system is located in the Ennedi region of the Sahara, home to a nearby plateau called the Ennedi Massif. Here, striking sandstone arches and other freestanding structures tower over canyons and plains, alongside ancient caves. Human occupation of this desert region dates back to the Neolithic period, evidenced by archeological sites and ancient artwork. The Ennedi Massif was once a primordial ocean that covered part of what is now the Sahara Desert and dried up between 350 and 500 million years ago. Erosion by water, sand, and wind has sculpted canyons and valleys in the arid plateau that is roughly the size of Switzerland.
Gorges and rock labyrinths are still home to small streams that have provided resources for generations of communities living in Ennedi Massif. Ancient petroglyphs dating back 7,000 years show the evolution of the land’s topography and animal life through paint and engravings. Around 30,000 semi-nomadic people now live within the Ennedi reserve’s borders, grazing livestock in oasis areas and continuing to steward the land their forebears relied on.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nyiragongo Volcano
Description: Mount Nyiragongo has erupted at least 34 times since 1882 & is home to the world's largest lava lake.
Content: You’d think that the last place on Earth people would want to inhabit would be the bottom of a steep volcano hosting the world’s largest fluid lava lake. Despite the constant threat of catastrophic fiery death, the area at the foot of Mount Nyiragongo is dotted with highly populated bustling villages.
One such disaster occurred in 1977, when the walls of the crater burst open and the lake of molten rock drained in less than an hour, pouring itself down into the villages at a terrifying speed of up to 60 mph. Unlike your average lava flow, the unique presence of an alkali-rich volcanic rock, melilite nephelinite, creates a highly fluid consistency, allowing it to move at speeds that can easily overcome anything in its path. The official death toll was 70, but many report much higher numbers, some estimating the losses at several thousand.
The 1977 eruption took place when the lake was at its maximum depth ever recorded, 10,700 ft., but the extent of its volume varies depending on activity. No one knows how long the volcano has been active, but since 1882 it’s been very busy, erupting at least 34 times, occasionally bubbling and spewing fire for years before settling down.
Located inside Virunga National Park about 20 km. North of Goma, Mount Nyiragongo is currently still active, its last deadly eruption taking 147 lives in 2002. Its activity is, for now, being confined to the crater, where the lake of lava is slowly rising once more.
----------------------------------------
Title: Okapi Wildlife Reserve
Description: Home to pygmy hunter-gatherers, hundreds of animal and bird species, and the strange okapi, or forest giraffe.
Content: Located in the Congo River basin, the Okapi Wildlife Reserve is a refuge for nomadic pygmy Mbuti and Efe hunters and many species of animals and birds. It’s also home to about 5,000 of the estimated 30,000 okapi surviving in the wild.
The Okapi Wildlife Reserve was established in 1992 and listed as a World Heritage Site in 1996. Covering about 5,300 square miles of the Ituri forest in the north-east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the reserve helps to protect rare plant and animal life, as well as the traditional lifestyle and culture of nomadic pygmy hunter-gatherers.
The reserve takes its name from the okapi that live in its forests. These strange creatures are notable for the zebra-like markings on their legs, but are most closely related to giraffes, hence their other common names: forest giraffe, Congolese giraffe or zebra giraffe. Some 30,000 okapis survive in the wild today, of which about 5,000 live in the reserve.
In total, the reserve is home to 101 mammal species and 376 documented species of birds. These include 17 species of primates (with a population of around 7,500 chimpanzees), an estimated 7,500 forest elephants, and populations of dwarf antelopes, water chevrotains, forest buffalo, bongos (nocturnal forest antelopes) and giant forest hogs.
Along with the rangers who protect the park, the other guardians of these forests are the Mbuti and Efe hunters who roam the reserve. Both are pygmy peoples, with adult males typically reaching a height of at most 4 feet and 11 inches. They have lived in these forests for centuries, perhaps millennia, and continue to live as hunter-gatherers deep in the forest, maintaining their traditional lifestyles in harmony with their environment.
Other humans, however, are far less respectful of the reserve and its many natural resources. The Okapi Wildlife Reserve faces numerous threats, including the commercial hunting of bushmeat, slash-and-burn forest clearance for agriculture, and illegal mining and logging, all exacerbated as immigrants continue to move into the Ituri forest from the overpopulated highlands to the east.
As if that wasn’t problematic enough, armed militias are also a threat to the reserve, its rangers, and all that live within it. Like Virunga National Park in the DRC, Okapi has suffered attacks by Mai-Mai rebels. In June 2012, a group formed of elephant poachers and illegal miners attacked the Epulu Conservation and Research Center, killing six people and 13 of the 14 okapis that lived at the center. In July 2017, a large group of journalists and park rangers were attacked by a group also thought to have been Mai Mai rebels. The foreign journalists escaped with several rangers, but four local wardens and a tracker were killed.
As with Virunga National Park, the situation remains tense and efforts are ongoing to maintain the relative stability of the reserve in the face of these man-made threats.
----------------------------------------
Title: Senkwekwe Mountain Gorilla Center
Description: The world's only facility where orphaned mountain gorillas are cared for.
Content: Established in 2009, the Senkwekwe Mountain Gorilla Center in Virunga National Park is the world’s only facility specifically created to care for orphaned mountain gorillas.
While concerted conservation efforts over the last 30 years have brought the population of wild mountain gorillas from a dangerous low of 620 to just over 1,000 today, these beautiful creatures still face extreme threats in their natural habitat straddling the dangerous and unstable border between the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, and Burundi. That’s where Virunga National Park’s Senkwekwe Mountain Gorilla Center comes in.
As part of Africa’s oldest national park, the Senkwekwe Center was established in 2009 to care for orphaned mountain gorillas who were victims of wildlife poachers or animal trackers as infants. The Senkwekwe Center, which is named after a family of six mountain gorillas that were brutally murdered in 2007, is a unique sanctuary for these incredibly endangered species to live a full, protected life.  
The Center is managed by Virunga Park rangers and other dedicated staff, who are currently caring for four orphaned gorillas that were injured in snares or lost their family members. It has the rare distinction of being the only place in the world where mountain gorillas have been documented to thrive in captivity.
----------------------------------------
Title: Virunga National Park
Description: The most biologically diverse protected area in Africa is also the most dangerous.
Content: Virunga National Park is the oldest and most biologically diverse protected area in Africa. Covering about 3,000 square miles, it’s a vital refuge for endangered gorillas and hundreds of other rare species. But it is also one of the world’s most dangerous conservation projects, as armed conflict has led to the death of more than 180 park rangers in the last 20 years. 
Created in 1925, Virunga National Park covers a vast area in the heart of the Albertine Rift Valley in the east of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. With its river valleys, volcanoes, lakes, and tropical forests, the park has an almost unrivaled diversity of ecosystems and landscapes.
These habitats provide a home to many rare and endangered species, most famously the critically endangered mountain gorillas who live in Virunga’s volcanic forests, accounting for about one-third of the global population. More than 200 other mammal species live in the park, including okapis, lions, hippos, and forest and savanna elephants, alongside 706 species of birds, 109 recorded reptile species, 78 amphibian species, and 22 species of primates.
Add humans into the mix, however, and things take a darker turn. Armed conflict has plagued the region for decades, and clashes with militia and smugglers have resulted in the deaths of more than 180 park rangers in Virunga over the last 20 years.
Today, some 600 brave rangers risk their lives every day to protect the park, the gorillas, and all the other species that call Virunga home. And while they continue to do their job, the park itself has been closed to tourists since June 2018. The closure was enforced after rebels killed one park ranger and abducted two British tourists. The tourists were later released, but the park was closed until the end of the year.
Whether Virunga will reopen in 2019 remains to be seen. The park is looking to introduce more robust security measures to help combat multiple security threats, including smuggling, illegal charcoal production, poaching, and the continued presence of the Mai Mai militia.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kahuzi-Biéga National Park
Description: One of the last refuges of the endangered eastern lowland gorilla.
Content: Covering 2,300 square miles, Kahuzi-Biéga National Park is one of the largest national parks in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is also one of the last refuges of the eastern lowland gorilla, now considered critically endangered.
Kahuzi-Biéga National Park was established in 1970 by Adrien Deschryver, a Belgian photographer and conservationist who ranks alongside Dian Fossey as one of the great protectors of the world’s endangered gorilla population.
The vast park is named after the two dormant volcanoes located within its limits, Mount Kahuzi and Mount Biega. Both mountainous and lowland terrain are found within the park boundaries, covered with primary tropical forest that provides protection to a wide range of flora and fauna. These include around 136 species of mammals, 349 species of birds, and more than 1,170 plant species.
Most famously, Kahuzi-Biéga is home to one of the largest and most studied populations of eastern lowland gorillas (known as Grauer’s gorilla or Gorilla beringei graueri) in the world. Tragically, the eastern lowland gorilla population has declined globally by 77 percent over the last 20 years, the result of logging, mining, civil unrest, and the poaching of the gorillas for meat. In 2016, the global population was estimated at fewer than 3,800.
The situation in Kahuzi-Biéga has been even more drastic, with an 87 percent decline, exacerbated by the conflicts in Congo and Rwanda during the 1990s. Estimates in 2012 put the number of eastern lowland gorillas in the park at between 1,272 and 2,518 individuals in the lowland areas, and 170 in the highlands.
There have, however, been some small signs of improvement in Kahuzi-Biéga. Researchers found that one gorilla population, in the highland sector of the park, has grown. In 2008, a status report put the group’s population at just 125. Thanks to the brave efforts of the park’s rangers, who risk their lives to protect the gorillas, the group has now increased in size to between 200 and 250.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gbadolite
Description: The "Versailles of the Jungle" built by a dictator is now a decaying shadow of its hubristic grandeur.
Content: Once a small village on the edge of the Democratic Republic of the Congo that was barely even mentioned on most maps, Gbadolite was transformed into the extravagant seat of a dictator who changed the face of the country, but now the tiny town is a ruined complex of despotic extravagance gone to seed.
When former journalist Mobutu Sese Seko took power in 1965 with the help of the CIA, he dug deep into the country’s coffers to turn his ancestral village into a glimmering jewel where he could live and entertain like a king unrivaled. Before Mobutu’s reign, Gbadolite was simply a small community of less than 2,000 people living in earthen huts, but the dictator constructed a trio of palaces nearby, a full-service airport, a hospital, a five-star hotel with over 100 rooms, and a land transportation infrastructure that could service the remote area.
During Mobutu’s reign the lifestyle for the ruling powers in Gbadolite was lavish and extravagant with fine wines, rare cuisine, and full service entertainment facilities that catered to the dictator and his guests despite the poverty surrounding them and the corrupt source of the wealth.
Mobutu’s rule ended in a coup in 1997 and during the ensuing war, much of the extravagant flourishes that the ruler had put in were damaged or destroyed and the shining seat of Mobutu’s power slid into ruin.
Today Gbadolite is once again a remote village although some of Mobutu’s remaining supporters still tend to the remains of his crumbling palaces, conducting tours of the once gilded halls and making sure that the memory of the village’s time in the sun doesn’t completely fade.
----------------------------------------
Title: Monument to African Dictator Laurent Kabila
Description: Built by a North Korean team this monument to African dictator Laurent Kabila has a suspiciously Kim Jong Il shaped body.
Content: Towering in the middle of a traffic circle in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, is a roughly 25-foot tall statue of a bald headed, dour looking, Laurent Kabila, the former despotic leader of the DRCongo. With his finger raised to the sky, a small a book grasped in his left hand, and dressed in pleated military slacks and button up, the statue has a familiar air to it.
The statue was built by a group of North Koreans artisans who work abroad as the Mansudae Overseas Project, and is among dozens of monuments the North Koreans have built throughout Africa. Ironically while North Korea’s economy and people suffer, masked by a massive government propaganda campaign, government propaganda itself has become one of North Koreas most successful exports. This is in part because the Mansudae Overseas Project provide monuments and museums for dictators and despots at bargain basement prices. But the cheap prices also come with cut corners.
In this case of the Laurent Kabila statue, built by his son and current ruler of the DRC, the familiarity of Kabila to North Korean monuments may be further than stylistic. According to locals, the body on the Kabila statue belongs not to Kabila himself but to Kim Jong Il. The only modification was welding a bald and grumpy Kabila head on top. While there is no definitive proof of this - in part because there are currently only a few public statues of Kim Jong Il - it wouldn’t be the first time the Mansudae Overseas Project had been called out by one of their despotic clients for taking the easy route.
The group, having been trained to specifically to produce state approved images of Kim Il-Sung and Kim Jong Il has had trouble creating realistic looking African faces, a problem that arose in both Mali and Senegal. The first version of Senegal’s massive African Renaissance Monument had to have their heads redesigned. “It had to have African heads, not Asian!”said Mr. Wade the 83 year old former Senegalese president who commissioned the massive statue.
Despite the difficulties, the North Korean Mansudae Overseas Project is still the go to source for giant monuments of African dictators, and despite the Asiatic faces and suspiciously Kim Jong Il shaped bodies, they will likely continue to produce massive statues of corrupt leaders across the continent.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tour de l'Échangeur
Description: Also known as the Limete Tower, la Tour de l'Échangeur can be seen from almost everywhere in Kinshasa.
Content: Driving into Kinshasa from the N’dijili International Airport on Route National 1, one is confronted by a large tower in the Commune of Limite that is a bit awe-inspiring (given its location) and both surprising and perplexing. Known as the Tour de l’Échangeur (Interchange Tower), it remains today one of the tallest human-built structures on the African continent.A total of 689 feet (210 meters) tall, the tower was ordered built by President Mobutu Sese Seku in 1971 as a monument to Patrice Lumumba, a Congolese leader who fought for independence and who later served as the first prime minister of the country after independence in 1960 until his assassination in January 1961.
The tower stands in the middle of a public square which was called Exchange Square until 2011, when its name was changed to Reconstruction Square. Today it hosts the Museum of Contemporary and Multimedia Arts which has collections of Congolese art and sculpture. A statue of Patrice Lumumba was erected in the square in January 2002.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ureka
Description: This village surrounded by breathtaking waterfalls is one of the wettest places on earth.
Content: From the moment you get out of your car and see that first waterfall tumbling down the cliff until you’re swimming beneath another waterfall deep within the jungle, you know you’re somewhere special. A two-hour drive to the south of Bioko Island, Ureka is a hidden world.
Seeing that first waterfall you might wonder if you should bother to go any further. You could spend the day right there, like the locals do, on the beach, barbecuing and paddling in the waves. Or, you could take a walk. You’ll need to start early. Bring plenty of water and sun protection. It’s hot. The beach is completely exposed. But if you walk for about an hour along the deserted, black sand beach, you’ll find waterfall number two. Hidden in the jungle, it spills into a pool perfect for swimming and fishing. You might wonder again if you should go on. You could just spend your day here, wallowing in the cool water. Keep going. Deeper into the jungle. There is a path, but things grow fast here and it can be difficult to find.
Thirty minutes of thrashing through the trees, scrambling up and over fallen logs, until you arrive at the sand of a tiny private beach. You’ll need to cross a river here. The tide can be high. The current strong. The water may reach up to your neck so you’ll need to carry your backpack over your head. Wear water shoes if you can—the stones on the riverbed are brutal. Continue upstream along the low rocky river you’ve just crossed. Suddenly, you’ve made it. Waterfall number three. A gushing, wide mouth, cascading into the river that you’ve just crossed. Taking a dip is recommended. Or hang out on the grass nearby, listen and watch. There is nobody else around. You might think this is it. You’ve already walked so far. What could possibly be more rewarding, more special than this?
Don’t give up now. Back down the river. Along the sand and around the corner. During the dry season, you might encounter a group of students from Drexel University. They camp out in the jungle for months at a time, studying the giant turtles that nest on the beach. They’ll appreciate it if you bring them some treats. Living this remotely, they don’t get much opportunity to restock their supplies.
Finally, hidden just beyond their camp, there it is: waterfall number four. Tumbling down from the cliff into a large beautiful pool. Like something out of a fantasy novel. Something truly from another world. And at the end of the day, damp and tired, you’ll make your way back through the jungle. Walking along the majestic black sand beach, as the afternoon waves crash onto the shore, you’ll marvel at how fortunate you are to be one of the few people in the world to experience such a magical place.
----------------------------------------
Title: Playa de Arena Blanca
Description: During the dry season, this white-sand beach hosts thousands of breeding butterflies.
Content: Playa de Arena Blanca is a stunning white sand beach on Bioko Island in Equatorial Guinea. But that’s not the only reason to visit. During the dry season between December and February, thousands of butterflies populate the beach to breed. The spectacle is known to create dense “clouds” of butterflies.
Bioko Island is the largest volcanic island in the Gulf of Guinea, located 100 miles northwest of Equatorial Guinea’s coast and 60 miles from the southern coast of Nigeria. In the native Bube language, the island is called Ëtulá Ëria. Much of its landscape is dominated by tropical rainforests and steep mountains.
That landscape supports a diverse population of plants and animals. The island is home to more than 200 species of birds, and its beaches are a breeding ground for four species of sea turtles. Interestingly, a 1994 analysis found that Bioko has fewer endemic species (plants and animals found nowhere else) than the nearby islands of São Tomé and Príncipe. These other islands in the Gulf of Guinea have been isolated for much longer, while Bioko was connected to the African mainland until about 10,000 years ago.
Bioko also has some of the greatest butterfly diversity in the world. In 2000, 172 different butterfly species were recorded on the 779-square-mile island, and researchers continue to learn more about the fluttering insects that call this island home. In 2015, researchers identified three new species on the island that sport some extraordinarily cool names: the striped policeman (Coeliades forestan), the silky dart (Semalea pulvina), and the forest sylph (Ceratrichia phocion camerona).
----------------------------------------
Title: Pico Basilé
Description: It's been nearly a century since this volcano, the tallest mountain in Equatorial Guinea, erupted.
Content: Standing 3,011 meters (9,878 feet) tall, Pico Basilé is the volcano king of Bioko Island. The summit of the shield volcano, which last erupted in 1923, is often hidden by clouds. You might catch a glimpse of its peak, but the full extent of its grandeur will only appear on a clear, cloudless day. And clear, cloudless days don’t tend to happen that much around here.
In the dry season, you’d be forgiven for forgetting that Pico Basilé is even there, lurking quietly behind a wall of dust. Late November to early March is when the annual phenomenon known as Harmattan occurs, in which sand from the Sahara Desert blows across the sea. It coats the island in dust so thick that visibility is reduced to not much more than 50 meters (160 feet). 
Your best bet for a full Pico viewing is after a rainstorm. As soon as the rain has washed away the clouds (or the dust), finally Pico will appear in all its glory, presiding majestically over Equatorial Guinea’s capital city of Malabo. 
Pico Basilé is the tallest mountain in Equatorial Guinea. It’s a volcano. And it’s there. So of course you want to stand on the top. After all, isn’t that what mountains are for? If you want to reach the top, you have three options: Driving up the paved road in the comfort of an air-conditioned vehicle (preferably one with four-wheel drive); Cycling up on your fancy road bike; Walking up (but probably not back down).
The road is asphalt and surprisingly well-maintained, but it is, horrendously steep. Don’t be fooled by those 10 percent gradient road signs. If you’re driving, make sure your driver knows how to drive a stick and is comfortably staying in first gear—especially on the way back down.
The fact that the road is well-maintained, and not heavily trafficked, can also make it an enticing challenge for keen cyclists. But again with the steepness. Even the most experienced hill-climbing cyclists will find they need to step off and walk in certain sections. 
If you choose to walk, remember that this road was made for vehicles, not hiking. You will be walking 30 kilometers, straight up. And there aren’t a lot of views along the way. And there is certainly no guarantee of a view at the top. (You might just find yourself surrounded by a chilly cloud.)
Let’s be frank—it’s likely that you won’t see much more than a telecommunications tower and a couple of security guards at the top. But remember—it’s about the journey, not the destination! Right? Or you could just wait for a rainstorm and admire the view from sea level.
----------------------------------------
Title: Catedral de Santa Isabel
Description: The largest Christian church in the country is a complicated symbol of Spanish colonialism.
Content: On a quiet square nestled along a seaside harbor stands a towering cathedral with a peach-colored facade and two soaring, 130-foot-tall towers. Construction on Catedral de Santa Isabel began while Equatorial Guinea was still under Spanish colonial rule in 1887. The church was then consecrated in 1916. Local practitioners, businesses, and the Spanish government all came together to fund the massive building project. The Spanish architect Llairadó Luis Segarra was eventually commissioned to design the Gothic revival church and the famous Catalan architect Antonio Gaudí even weighed in on the church’s design. 
While many people associate Spanish colonialism with the Americas, Equatorial Guinea was Spain’s last colony to gain independence in 1968. Equatorial Guinea’s capital, Malabo, and the Catedral de Santa Isabel within it rest on Bioko island’s northern coast. But in the 15th century, Portuguese explorers completed a survey of the island and called it Fernando Po, after the expedition’s leader. For centuries, Indigenous Africans, especially the Bubis, expelled colonialists from the island with guerilla warfare and their knowledge of the island’s dense landscape. The southern part of the island even became a haven for people who had escaped from enslavement on nearby Portuguese-controlled islands like São Tomé and Príncipe. One Spanish traveler in the 1780s said these runaways created “a republic that is governed by its own laws.” 
It was only later in the 19th century that Spain began building up Bioko island with construction projects like the cathedral. At times, Spain forcibly shipped free people of color from Cuba to the island to bolster the population. Spain also systematically attacked the Bubis, targeting their religion and social systems as disease and Spanish attacks reduced their population from 30,000 in 1820 to 10,000 in 1911.
Today there’s still a lot of Spanish influence in Equatorial Guinea. The country’s official language is Spanish and Spanish food and restaurants can be found throughout the country. Approximately 87 percent of Equatorial Guinea’s population is Catholic, one of the highest proportions per capita in any African nation. While many praise Catedral de Santa Isabel as a beautiful example of Spanish colonial architecture, it stands today as a complicated symbol of Spanish colonialism in the country.
----------------------------------------
Title: Loango National Park
Description: The true jewel of Africa's west coast known as "Africa's Last Eden."
Content: Imagine this: Walking along a pristine, uninhabited, unspoiled beach, the only sound is the waves crashing upon the shore, when you hear another less familiar sound that catches you off guard. The thundering trumpet of an elephant herd sauntering along the coastline, watchful mothers guarding their calves that frolic in the surf of the Atlantic Ocean. How about a hippopotamus caught among the waves and surfing to the shore? If this sounds impossible, you’ve never been to Loango National Park, ‘Africa’s Last Eden’. 
Situated between the Nkomi and Ndogo Lagoons, Loango National Park is home to a stunning diversity of habitats within its 1,550 km range, from savannas to 100 km of pristine, unoccupied beaches; from seemingly untouched virgin rain forests to the serpentine bends and gnarls of mangrove forests, Loango offers many sights for any true nature lover. 
Loango National Park also includes part of the 220 km² Iguéla Lagoon, the only significant example of a typical western African lagoon system that is protected entirely within a national park.
For animal lovers, Loango National Park is a true paradise on earth. Gabon holds one of the highest densities of wildlife in the world, and Loango National Park proudly shows off its bountiful harvest to the world: forest elephants, hippos, red forest buffalo, leopards, crocodiles, western lowland gorillas, chimpanzees, sitatunga, duikers, a vast array of birds, a variety of different monkey species, and the world’s largest concentration of humpback whales and dolphins after South Africa. Visit while it still remains one of the few pristine places left on Earth.
----------------------------------------
Title: Oklo Reactor
Description: The world's first and only natural nuclear reactor.
Content: Many people think nuclear power is an invention of mankind, and some even think it violates the laws of nature. But nuclear power is in fact a naturally occurring phenomenon, and life could not exist without it. That’s because our sun (and every other star for that matter) is itself a giant power plant, lighting up the solar system through a process known as thermonuclear fusion.
Humans, however, generate power through a different process called nuclear fission, which releases energy by splitting atoms rather than combining them as in the fusion process. No matter how ingenious our race may seem though, even fission reactors are old news to Mother Nature. In a singular but well-documented circumstance, scientists have found evidence that naturally occurring fission reactors were created inside three uranium ore deposits in the west African country of Gabon.
Two billion years ago, the uranium-rich mineral deposits became flooded with groundwater, setting off a self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction. The energy that was subsequently released then raised temperatures enough to begin boiling away the water, but when the mineral deposits eventually cooled down the nuclear reactions would start back up again. By examining the levels of certain isotopes of xenon gas (a byproduct of the uranium fission process) in the surrounding rock, scientists have determined the natural reactor proceeded in this start-stop fashion at intervals of about two and a half hours.
In this manner, the uranium deposits in the Oklo region of Gabon created a natural nuclear power plant that operated for hundreds of thousands of years until most of the fissile uranium was depleted. While a majority of the uranium at Oklo is the non-fissile isotope U238, only about 3% needed to be the fissile isotope U235 for the chain reaction to start. Today, that percent of fissile uranium in the deposits is around 0.7%, indicating that the deposit had sustained reactions for a relatively long period of time. But it was this exact characteristic of the rocks from Oklo that first puzzled scientists.
The low levels of U235 were first noticed in 1972 by employees of the Pierrelatte uranium enrichment facility in France. During routine mass spectrometry analysis of samples from the Oklo mine, it was discovered that the concentration of the fissile uranium isotope differed by three thousandths of a percent (0.003%) from the expected value. This seemingly small difference was significant enough to alert authorities, who were concerned that the missing uranium could be used to develop nuclear weapons. But later that year, scientists found the answer to the two-billion-year-old secret: the world’s first, and only natural, nuclear reactor.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Tele
Description: This picturesque round lake is said to be home to the legendary Mokèlé-mbèmbé.
Content: Located amidst one of the least explored areas in the world, Lake Tele is rumored to be home to the Mokèlé-mbèmbé, a Brontosaurus-like creature that is the Congo’s answer to the Loch Ness Monster.
Due to the dense tropical swampland surrounding the lake, the area is extremely hard to survey. Dangerous animals/insects and impassible terrain are just some of the obstacles explorers of the area face. However, there is rumored to be a secretive beast lurking in the dense swamp. For hundreds of years, reports of a mysterious cryptid resembling a long-necked dinosaur have trickled out of the area, being briefly spotted by explorers or described by the native pygmies, and it is widely believed to live in Lake Tele. 
Of course, there has been no verifiable evidence of the beast, but the reports are so widespread and exist over such a long period of time that the creature has grabbed the imagination of cryptozoologists across the globe. They believe that Mokèlé-mbèmbé is a prehistoric survivor of some sort, who hides in Lake Tele and the unnavigable swamps surrounding it. There is even tell of some local pygmies who once killed and ate a Mokèlé-mbèmbé.   
While it’s unlikely that the Mokèlé-mbèmbé exists in the stagnant, landlocked waters of Lake Tele, it has  certainly made its home in the minds of believers everywhere.
----------------------------------------
Title: De Brazza's Mausoleum
Description: A crypt believed by many Congolese to be a center of black magic.
Content: On October 2, 2006, a charter plane carrying the skeletal remains of the 19th-century Italian explorer Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza, as well as those of his wife and four children, took off from Algeria and landed at Maya-Maya airport in Brazzaville, the capital of the Republic of Congo.
De Brazza’s bones were met at the airport by three African presidents, who escorted them to their new resting place, a $10 million marble and glass mausoleum built at a major intersection in downtown Brazzaville, the city that De Brazza helped found.
Many Congolese have refused to enter the mausoleum. At first, the rejection was merely a protest against the heroic veneration of a colonialist. But soon, ominous rumors started to circulate about the memorial. Talk to anyone on the street in downtown Brazzaville, and you will hear the same thing: the mausoleum is a center of kindoki, or “black magic.”
Indeed, in a country where politics is often intertwined with traditional beliefs about sorcery, the building is believed to be a kind of Skull and Bones of Equatorial Africa, a place where a shadowy African elite meets to plot the future of the continent. Anyone who enters risks coming under the spell of powerful leaders—and may not emerge alive. Hence the empty building at the heart of the city.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nabemba Tower
Description: The tallest building in the Republic of the Congo is a source of pride despite its towering maintenance costs.
Content: The Nabemba Tower rises up from the banks of the Congo River in the Congolese capital of Brazzaville. Built in the 1980s, the office skyscraper is the tallest building in the Republic of the Congo and one of the tallest in Central Africa.
Back in the 1980s, the Marxist government of the Republic of the Congo set out a five-year plan to redevelop the capital of Brazzaville. Bragging rights were at stake, particularly with neighboring Kinshasa, the more famous capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo located just across the river (despite the similarity in names, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, formerly known as Zaire, is a different country).
Despite the general poverty of its populace, the oil-rich nation began to invest in modern structures rather than much-needed infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and roads. The centerpiece of this period of development was the Nabemba Tower, built between 1982 and 1986.
Designed by Jean Marie Legrand and built with oil money lent by the French oil company Elf Aquitaine (hence the building’s other name, the Elf Tower), the completed building consisted of 30 stories at a total height of 348 feet (106 meters). It became the tallest building in the Republic of the Congo, a title it still holds today and was named after Mont Nabemba, the highest mountain in the country.
The design of the building has garnered both praise and criticism in terms of its aesthetics. The bulk of the tower is a concave cylinder of alternate vertical strips of glass and white concrete, which accentuate the curvature of the structure. This sits on top of a rectangular pedestal, making the whole thing look somewhat precarious. For some, it’s one of the modern architectural marvels of Central Africa. For others, it’s one of the ugliest skyscrapers in the world.
Since its construction, the Nabemba Tower has been the focus of issues far more important than its simple artistic merits. In 1997, civil war tore its way through Brazzaville and the tower was riddled by gunfire and almost reduced to ruins. It was all but abandoned until 2001 when it was rebuilt and reopened at enormous cost. The total reconstruction effort cost more than $7.5 million, significantly more than it cost to build in the first place.
And then there are the ongoing maintenance costs, which for a relatively poor country are unsurprisingly controversial. Granted, the building houses the offices of some well-meaning groups including the African Self-Help Development Initiative, the New Partnership for African Development, and UNESCO. But with its annual running costs of around $3.8 million, it’s not hard to see why some critics see the Nabemba Tower as a costly folly, especially in a country with failing health, education and transport systems.
Despite much local pride in the towering structure, many people agree with local architect Norbert Mbila, who described the Nabemba Tower as “a strategic building that was built for prestige. It is neither appropriate nor efficient, and it requires a great deal of maintenance.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Pico Cao Grande
Description: Nature’s skyscraper launches out of the terrain with attitude.
Content: On a small island off the coast of Africa a lofty volcanic tower known as Pico Cao Grande looms dark on the horizon, like a fantasy landscape illustrating why mountains have often been mythologized as conduits between ancient divinities and earth.
Standing at a whopping 386 meters tall, the “Great Dog Peak” is one of nature’s most impressive high-rises. The needle-shaped volcanic plug is made of treacherous volcanic rock and surrounded by a thick jungle of giant ferns infested with snakes which thrive in the humid climate. Despite these natural setbacks, the spire still manages to attract a couple of thrill-seeking climbers each year.
Climbing the tower is especially dangerous due to the slippery mosses that cover much of the rock, not to mention the snakes that inhabit the needle itself. In addition, a blanket of mist usually cloaks the column resulting from Sao Tome’s abundance of annual rainfall (between 4,500 and 5,000 mm), making the surface as slippery as glass during actual precipitation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Roça Sundy
Description: This nearly abandoned plantation was once witness to an eclipse that proved Einstein's theory of relativity.
Content: Roça Sundy is a nearly abandoned coffee plantation on the small african island of Principe, just north of the equator where an independent astrophysicist proved Einstein’s theory of relativity by watching an eclipse.
In 1919 famous British astrophysicist Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington traveled to the island of Príncipe to find the perfect location from which to view a predicted eclipse. Eddington hoped to capture starlight being shifted by the sun’s gravity, thus proving Einstein’s model of physics over Newton’s. The eclipse was necessary as it would be the only time he could view the light unobscured from the sun. He found the perfect spot in Roça Sundy.
The Sundy plantation (roça translates to plantation) was a one time cocoa and coffee farm that had eventually turned over to the royal family of Principe who used the site as a vacation home. With a great deal of land close to the jungle, the ambient light was minimal and Eddington was able to set up shop in the main house. As he predicted, Eddington found slight curvature of the light and after publishing his findings, much of the scientific community deemed it the first concrete example of Einstein’s theory.  
Today the plantation site lies in great disrepair as though the jungle has decided to take over. People still live in the old slave’s quarters, while the master houses are locked. Old farming and processing equipment still litter the overgrown wilds of the plantation grounds, but there is precious little evidence of Eddington’s once groundbreaking research. There is a gate keeper and the plantation is more like a village where people live near (and in) the derelict buildings.
----------------------------------------
Title: Marco do Equador
Description: The equator passes through this tiny island in the eastern Atlantic.
Content: Just south of São Tomé there is a small island called Ilhéu das Rolas. On this little island, you can find a monument marking the location of the equator.
Ilhéu das Rolas covers just two square kilometers (0.77 square miles). It has a small population, and can only be reached by a ferry from the larger island of São Tomé Island, which lies across the Canal das Rolas. Between 1915 and 1918, Portuguese navigator and historian Gago Coutinho traveled to São Tomé on an expedition to map the island, which was at that point a colony of Portugal. During the mapping process, Coutinho observed that the equator crossed Ilhéu das Rolas.
The monument marks the location were the equatorial line runs through the island, splitting it between the Northern and Southern Hemispheres. It stands on the grounds of Ilhéu das Rolas’s only resort, the Pestana Equador. The ground underneath the monument is covered with a tile mosaic map of the world.
----------------------------------------
