Title: Source du Nil
Description: For millennia, explorers were obsessed with discovering the source of the Nile—is this small mountain stream really the answer?
Content: In the lush mountains of Burundi, 70 miles southeast of the bustling city of Bujumbura, lies the southernmost source of the Nile River—maybe. There are, in fact, many sources of the Nile. But this mountain stream in Burundi is likely the southernmost source of the river, which cuts a winding course through several countries before it empties into the Mediterranean. Also, it has a pyramid. 
At around 4,100 miles, the Nile is the world’s longest river. It has three main tributaries: the White Nile, the Blue Nile, and the Atbara. In 1863, English explorer John Hanning Speke “settled” the question of the Nile’s source, claiming that the terminus was Lake Victoria. But many rivers flow into that reservoir, the two largest being the Nyabarongo River, which flows from Rwanda’s Mount Bigugu, and the Ruvyironza (later Ruvubu) River, which flows from Burundi’s Mount Kikizi. It was German explorer Burkhart Waldecker who tracked down this latter source.
Waldecker identified the Burundi source on November 12, 1937. He had come to the Belgian Congo seeking asylum from Nazi persecution, and soon after became obsessed with finding the Nile’s source. It’s said that it took Waldecker four years to trace the nearly 4,350 miles between where the Nile empties into the Mediterranean and this source in Burundi. Both then and now, the Burundi source is only a tiny trickle of water flowing slowly down from a spring on Mount Kikizi. 
In the centuries before Waldecker arrived in Africa, other European explorers came searching for the source of the Nile. As early as 460 B.C., the Greek historian Herodotus guessed at the Nile’s origin. In the first century, the Roman Emperor Nero sent two centurions to lead an expedition in search of the river’s source. But the emperor’s death brought the expedition to an inconclusive end. In the early 1600s, two Spanish Jesuit priests explored some of the Blue Nile’s tributaries. 
Then, in the 19th century, explorers became even more obsessed with discovering the river’s true source. There was the Scottish physician David Livingstone, the aforementioned British army officer John Hanning Speke, and the Welsh-American journalist Sir Henry Morton Stanley, who undertook the expedition on behalf of King Leopold II of Belgium. It became somewhat anticlimactic once multiple sources were discovered.
Nevertheless, when Waldecker located the source in Burundi, he erected a stela on the nearest mountaintop “to remind people of the glorious destiny of the river.” He later replaced that stela with a stone pyramid bearing a Latin inscription: “CAPUT NILI MERIDIANISSIMUM,” which roughly translates to “the southernmost head of the Nile.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Gishora Drum Sanctuary
Description: This century-old site established by King Mwezi Gisabo preserves the art of Burundi's ancient drum rituals.
Content: Nestled in the lush, verdant hillside, just over five miles from Burundi’s capital, Gitega, is the Gishora Drum Sanctuary. Burundi’s last independent ruler, King Mwami Mwezi IV Gisabo Bikata-Bijoga, founded the sanctuary in celebration of a victory over the rebellious chief Ntibirangwa in the second half of the 19th century. Since its founding, the Gishora Drum Sanctuary has been a place to practice and teach specific ritual drumming techniques. 
Drumming in Burundi is an ancient practice that mixes combat-style dance, specific rhythms, religious rituals, epic poetry, all into one. Historically, drumming rituals were part of the enthronement of kings, agricultural sowing festivals, and funerals of kings and queens. The drums themselves have long been associated with royalty and specifically the monarchy.
Local boys and men, known as Abatimbo who descend from the ancient lineage of Abanyigisaka, have always run the sanctuary. They are the descendants of religious leaders who held senior positions within the royal court. 
As a country comprised of many different clans, including the Abahanza, Abavumu, Abajiji, and Abashubi, the drums became a means to unite a diverse population across generations and families. A ritual dance performed with the royal drum, ingoma, was one way to unite the people and honor the royal family. The drums themselves are made using wood from sacred, rare trees, like umuvugangoma (Cordia africana), umurama (Bridelia atroviridis), and umusave (Markhamia lutea). It’s believed that when the drums are played, they invite the ancestors into the ritual and banish evil spirits.
All drums have a name and purpose. At the Gishora Drum Sanctuary, there are two important drums that have never been played—Ruciteme (“the one for whom we clear the forest”) and Murimirwa (“the one for whom we cultivate”). Both names reflect the importance of farming, and the king’s association with the earth’s fertility. The sanctuary also has other drums known as Ingendanyi, or “retinue,” which are still beaten today.
Burundi continues to foster the practice and ritual of drumming, and in 2007 the government passed a suite of laws and policies to protect the ancient art form. These laws include the protection of drum sanctuaries, like Gishora and other sites throughout the country. Today, members of the sanctuary participate in drumming sessions at the site as well as celebrations held on Burundi’s Independence Day (July 1) and other government ceremonies.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dos du Dragon
Description: This moss-covered, rocky outcropping looks like a mythical beast resting in the water.
Content: On the northeast tip of the Grande Comore island, a rocky protrusion jutting out into the Indian Ocean, curling into the lapping waves. Locals have long referred to the natural feature as “Dos du Dragon,” or the dragon’s back. The ridge is dotted with free-standing stones that take on the appearance of a dragon’s nubby spine. Even the moss encasing the stones helps to sell the look, creating the appearance of a verdant set of scales.
All three of Comoros’s islands, including Grande Comore where Dos du Dragon is located, formed millions of years ago due to volcanic activity. There are two volcanoes on Grande Comore—the larger Mount Karthala, which last erupted in 2006, and La Grille Volcano. Dos du Dragon likely formed during a past, unrecorded eruption.
No one knows how or when the outcropping started being called the dragon’s back. Winged, serpent-like monsters are woven into the folklore of Comoros and other East African cultures. There’s the Swahili legend of the seven-headed snake Pembe Miuri, whose skin creates a fabulous silk-like cloth, and Tanzania’s bat-winged Popobawa, a demon who attacks those who don’t believe in it—even as recently as 1995. But the Western idea of a scaly, fire-breathing, winged dragon likely came with the arrival of French colonizers in the early 17th century.
Whatever the origins of the name, it’s undeniable that the outcropping looks a lot like a sleeping dragon resting beneath the waves. Today, there’s a trail you can walk along the ridge’s spine, where you can make your own determination of what the ridge looks like.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lac Salé
Description: Legend says this remote, “bottomless” lake was created by a curse.
Content: Nestled next to the small village of Mitsamioli on the northern tip of Grand Comore, a turquoise saltwater lake sits in a crater just yards from the crystalline ocean. This small lake, known as Lac Salé or Lac Niamawi, likely formed as a result of volcanic activity from the nearby Mount Karthala in the 16th century. 
But local folklore has another origin story for the so-called “bottomless” lake. The story goes that a holy man or witch came to the village of Niamawi asking for water, but everyone refused them. In revenge, the witch cursed the town, dooming its inhabitants to the wrath of an erupting volcano. Once the lava and ash cleared, the lake had replaced the now-submerged town. A more recent story says that back in 1977 a group of Belgian divers hoping to explore the crater dived down into the lake never to resurface again.
Throughout the day, the lake seems to change color, shifting from aquamarine to a deep green-blue. A layer of volcanic rock rests on the top edge of the crater. The lake continues to be a beautiful hike for visitors and locals alike, and there’s a short trail that winds around the crater and the nearby volcanic hill offering views of the vast ocean beyond.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lac Assal
Description: Rimmed by white crusts of salt on every edge, Lac Assal is one of the saltiest bodies of water in the world.
Content: Lac Assal is the third saltiest body of water on the planet, saltier even than the Dead Sea. The lake lies at the bottom of a crater at the lowest point in Africa. Surrounding the lake are several dormant volcanoes and lava fields. The location has been used by locals for decades to harvest salt; hauling the goods away on camelback. 
While the surrounding desert and volcanos are beautiful, the turquoise blue lake contrasted against the brilliantly white salt fields is breathtaking. Every bit of ground and rock in and around the lake is coated in a thick layer of salt. Local vendors often sell salt crystals, salt incrusted rocks, skulls, and other trinkets from Lac Assal.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Abbe
Description: A salt lake dotted with steaming limestone chimneys.
Content: Situated in the middle of the hot and hellish Afar Depression, Lake Abbe stretches six miles in width and is covered in clusters of massive, steam-blasting limestone chimneys. 
Although Lake Abbe is the ultimate destination for Ethiopia’s Awash River, its dry landscape absorbs the water, and the area is a vast landscape of salt flats. Besides Mount Dama Ali, a small dormant volcano, the landscape is almost completely level, and the steaming, sulphuric vents lend the region an apocalyptic, and Tatooine-like look. 
Some of the vents stretch as high as 150 feet into the air, and make the lake visible from miles around. Despite the hellish climate near Lake Abbe, nomadic Afar shepherds live in the area, along with a surprising population of flamingos.
----------------------------------------
Title: Eritrean Railway
Description: Take a ride back in time with a steam locomotive trip through Eritrea’s mountainous countryside.
Content: The Eritrean railway once connected the seaside port city of Massawa to the inland city of Agordot, spanning about 190 miles in total. After falling into disrepair over decades of conflict, sections of the railway are running again with much of the original equipment.
Constructed between 1887 and 1932 during Italian colonial occupation, the railroad was meant to extend to the Sudanese border, but construction plans were halted by the Italo-Ethiopian War. The years of the Italian war effort in World War II saw peak ridership of the railway, with hundreds of thousands of passengers and tons of freight traversing the lines. After Italy’s defeat in the war, however, some of Eritrea’s locomotives and cables were seized by the British for use in their nearby East African colony, Kenya.
After Eritrea’s annexation by Ethiopia, the railway fell into disrepair and paused service in 1975, closing one year later. After 30 years of intense conflict, Eritrea achieved independence from Ethiopia in 1991, and gained statehood two years later.
In 1994, Eritrea’s government began a project to restore parts of the railway, with the Asmara - Massawa line returning to service in 2003. While much of the railway’s ruination was from general neglect and decay, huge parts were destroyed during the struggle for independence. Carriages and locomotives rusted while stations along the line were raided. Although the Eritrean government took foreign bids for reconstruction, it ultimately decided to pursue reconstruction with its own resources.
Today, riding the railway is almost exclusively a privilege afforded by private tours. The train only travels about 12 miles per hour, making it difficult for commercial use. The rolling stock equipment used for the ride is the same that was used more than a century ago. While the railway line between Asmara and Massawa is serviceable, it needs upgrades to return to full commercial operation, and many repairs are still needed in order to extend the functional range to all former stations. There are rumored discussions with Sudan, however, for investment in a transnational rail system that would fund a more complete restoration of the system.
----------------------------------------
Title: Fiat Tagliero Service Station
Description: Eritrea's futuristic gas station is a nod to Italy's fascist history.
Content: Located in the center of Asmara, Eritrea’s capital city, is the Fiat Tagliero Service Station. Designed by famed Italian architect Giuseppe Pettazzi, this Futurist-style gas station was completed in 1938.
Asmara is the largest city in Eritrea and was incorporated as its capital by the Italians during their colonial rule of the African country. Pettazzi built many Art Deco buildings in Eritrea during this time, but this service station— modeled on airplane design as evidenced by its “wings”— is his most famous.
The Fiat Tagliero Service Station is a petrol station that includes a central tower with office space, a cashier’s desk, and a shop. The building’s flighty design is widely understood as a problematic nod to Italy’s Fascist history; it was built just months after the country’s airplanes dispensed thousands of sulfur mustard shells over Eritrea, killing tens of thousands of innocent civilians.
During construction, authorities attempted to convince the architect that the building’s wings required pillars, as a safety concern. Pettazzi refused to comply and went so far as to threaten the service station’s contractor and an unassuming construction worker with a handgun in a dramatic display of conviction standing atop his creation. Clearly, he felt the supports were not necessary, and he won the argument.
Pettazzi’s act is unsurprising, as architects who were too avant-garde for Mussolini’s Fascist Italy (and Europe in general) were sent to Asmara to design wildly imaginative buildings as a way to illustrate Italy’s idea of a modern city in their newly-taken territory. Pettazzi fit the bill.
A remarkable example of Italian modernist architecture, the Fiat Tagliero Service Station remains structurally sound to this day and has survived numerous conflicts and war. It was restored in 2003 and is unable to be altered by law. Thanks in part to this striking service station, Asmara was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in July 2017.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tank Graveyard
Description: Wander among hulking piles of rusted machinery left over from the Eritrean-Ethiopian War.
Content: The tank graveyard of Asmara is filled with rusted tanks, trucks, and other wrecked vehicles piled in twisty rows through which you can wander. Paths are littered with bits of ammunition and Russian metal plates with C.C.C.P. (the Russian acronym for the U.S.S.R.) stamped on them.
But the tank graveyard is more than just an assemblage of destroyed military hardware. It’s a bleak reminder of one of Africa’s longest wars in recent memory—the Eritrean War of Independence, fought between 1961 and 1991, that secured Eritrea’s independence from Ethiopia. Ethiopia, then backed by the Soviet Union, had a large army including tanks, trucks, cars, and machinery currently visible at the tank graveyard. Eritrean soldiers, on the other hand, fought with what they could find. Sandals were composed of tires and captured weapons were the only means of defense.
Despite the stark difference in armies, Eritrea’s determination to gain sovereignty allowed them to destroy a significant amount of Ethiopia’s war machinery. Ethiopia hid the evidence of their losses in a site just outside Asmara, knowing that leaving it on the streets would only bolster Eritrea’s morale. In 1991, when Eritrea finally won the war, Eritrean soldiers collected all the military hardware they could find and amassed it into what is now the tank graveyard. 
The site has turned into a public space that the few tourists who are able to enter Eritrea can visit. To local Eritreans, the site serves as a proud symbol of national liberation, and a reminder of the countless lives lost fighting during the war.
----------------------------------------
Title: Medeber Market
Description: Scrap material from around Eritrea finds a new life at this outdoor market, where upcycling is a lifestyle.
Content: Piles of discarded metal, rubber, wood, and plastic greet workers and visitors alike to Asmara’s Medeber market. Here, scrap material is repurposed by welders and craftspeople to make new kitchen appliances, furniture, bicycles, household utensils, and more in Eritrea’s capital city.
The open-air workshop was used as a caravan trade post in pre-colonial days, until Italian architect Odoardo Cavagnari redesigned the city of Asmara in the early 1900s, about three decades after Italy occupied and colonized Eritrea. From the very beginning, Medeber market was an upcycler’s dream of scrap metal and retired machinery. Innovative craftspeople and artisans recreated essential items that were either rare or extraordinarily expensive in Eritrea, due to high Italian importation fees. Although colonial taxes and tariffs are long past, the handiwork of Medeber’s artisans continues to fill a gap of affordability. Ovens out of oil drums, shovels out of car frames, and pots out of melted food containers—ingenuity knows no bounds here.
Medeber’s welders themselves are as iconic as the market, and are known for their unique handmade welding masks made with cardboard, plastic, and other found items. One of the best-known finds at the market are the shida, sandals fashioned from old rubber tires that were so important during the Eritrean war for independence that there’s a giant statue dedicated to them in Asmara.
A secondary, though no less impressive, draw of Medeber comes from the smaller spice section, where electric mills crushing ingredients together adds a layer of flavor to the market’s electric cacophony. The best-known spice is called berbere, a powerful flavor eponymous with much Eritrean cuisine. Artists also set up shop at Medeber, selling scarves, bags, clay coffee pots, religious icons, and more.
Some sections of the market were damaged in a fire in 2019, but the outdoor marketplace remained largely intact and continues to be an active workspace. Visitors can find Medeber Market behind Asmara’s Nda Mariam Orthodox church and should enter at the layered brick and stone gateway topped by a turret.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ben Abeba
Description: An otherworldly restaurant perched on the edge of a jagged cliff next to a medieval holy city.
Content: Lalibela, Ethiopia is a holy city, a UNESCO World Heritage site famous for its 12th century churches cut into the rock of the earth. On the opposite end of the architectural spectrum, just a short walk away, is Ben Abeba, a snail shell of a building that looks more like a spaceship landed on top of that rock.
Ben Abeba is a restaurant with wide-open spaces, located next to the historic architectural wonders of Lalibela. Perched high on a hill on the north side of town, it’s often described as looking like a bouquet of flowers or some sort of cooking pot.
The whole enterprise was the dream of owner Susan Aitchison, a retired home economics professor who came to Ethiopia from her native Scotland, initially to help a friend set up a school. Faced with leaving such a magnificent place and going home to Glasgow, she opted to stay. A chance ride with a local transportation company owner led to a business partnership, and to one of the best restaurants in Lalibela.
Aitchison and her partner, Habtamu Baye, hired local architects to put her ideas into motion, and the curved decks jutting out from the building’s central, spiraling staircase give patrons unobstructed views of the breathtaking river valley below. The award-winning restaurant serves a menu mixing traditional Ethiopian dishes and western fare, sometimes combining the two. Rising to the challenges of running a restaurant in a place with sometimes-sketchy electricity and less than reliable refrigeration, they pride themselves on giving valuable training to their young local staff, and especially their sourcing of local ingredients.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bete Giyorgis of Lalibela
Description: An Ethiopian "Jerusalem" featuring a church hewn out of a single rock.
Content: When young Saint Gebre Mesqel Lalibela was born into the Zagwe Dynasty in Ethiopia, the town of Lalibela was known as Roha. The name Lalibela was given to the young boy when he was surrounded by a swarm of bees soon after birth. His mother believed this was a sign that he would come to rule Ethiopia one day. His name literally means, “the bees recognize his sovereignty.”
Lalibela is best known as the king who ordered the construction of 11 monolithic stone churches found in the town today. Lalibela’s goal was to create a new Ethiopian Jerusalem, and he recreated many biblical scenes, such as the stable, out of carved rock. The Bete Giyorgis is by far the most spectacular of these churches. Carved out of the ground, and shaped from the inside out, it is one, unbroken piece of stone. Bete Giyorgis is connected to the other sunken stone churches through a series of elaborate tunnels.
There are two versions of the church’s history: one says that the church was built after Lalibela’s death (c. 1220) by his widow as a memorial to the “saint-king.” The other claims  it was a promise  king Lalibela had made to St. George, who had been upset Lalibela had not constructed a church dedicated to him. 
The church is cut 40 feet down, its roof forming the shape of a Greek cross. Inside the church, there is a curtain that shields the Holy of Holies and a priest displaying books and paintings to visitors. In the shadow of one of the arms of the cruciform-shaped church is a replica of the Ark of the Covenant. Although an explorer was once allowed to open it, he found it empty. No one was able to tell him what happened to its contents.
The town of Lalibela is completely isolated from the modern world. Without motor vehicles, gas stations, or paved streets, the town goes about its business as it has for hundreds of years. Religious ritual is central to the life of the town: one tenth of its population is devoted to priesthood. Regular processions, extensive fasts, and crowds of singing and dancing priests are also part of the package. The eleven solid rock churches, in the hills not far from the town, make Lalibela one of the holiest places in Ethiopia. Today, the site is considered one of the centers of pilgrimages for Ethiopian Christians. This atmosphere combined with the religious architecture and simplicity of the town’s way of life, gives the city of Lalibela “a distinctively timeless, almost biblical atmosphere.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Dallol
Description: The hottest place on the planet.
Content: In the north of Ethiopia, hours from any populated area, is a vast expanse of brutal landscape unlike anywhere else in the world.
Dallol, in the Danakil Depression, is a boiling, salt-formed world completely hostile to human visitors. The Danakil Depression, also known as the Afar Depression, holds the distinction of being one of the lowest and hottest parts of the world.
On top of average temperatures of 94 degrees Fahrenheit, Dallol itself is surrounded by boiling hot springs, bringing hot minerals and toxic gas bubbles to the surface. Despite making Dallol uninhabited, these geological forces have actually made the area somewhat picturesque, coloring the lowlands with rusty orange, yellow, and green salt formations.
Dallol is extremely unwelcoming to inhabitation. However, a number of people have still ventured into the region for work, due to the high deposits of table salt in the area. Expeditions funded by Europe prior to World War I were shut down and dismantled throughout the first half of the 20th century. Later attempts by American, Indian, and Italian companies have resulted in thousands of mines throughout the region, but no permanent settlement.
Although it is now uninhabited, small structures made of salt bricks were created by the Afar people, when they were employed by mining companies throughout the 20th century. However, the majority of these have been abandoned and few traces of these settlements still exist.
Near the Dallol area in the same region is Erta Ale, the “Gateway to Hell,” a smoking volcanic terrain complete with its own lava lakes. It is an equally harsh and unforgiving environment, and nearly impossible to reach without great difficulty.
----------------------------------------
Title: Erta Ale
Description: Ethiopia's "smoking mountain" is in one of the hottest regions on the planet and is home to two lava lakes.
Content: Located in the Danakil Depression (or Afar Depression) in the Afar Region of northeastern Ethiopia, Erta Ale is one of the driest, lowest and hottest places on earth. Temperatures during the year range from 77°F to 118°F. The area is beset by drought, bereft of trees, and has little in the way of roads.
Known by the Afar as the “smoking mountain” and “the gateway to hell,” Erta Ale is a 2,011-foot-high constantly active basaltic shield volcano. It is one of only a handful of continuously active volcanos in the world, and a member of an even more exclusive group: volcanos with lava lakes. While there are only five known volcanos with lava lakes globally, Erta Ale often has two active lava lakes – making it a unique site.
Erta Ale was discovered in 1906, making it the longest-known lava lake. For a lava lake to exist, the surface of the lake and the magma chamber below must form a constant convecting system, or the entire thing will cool and solidify. Beneath the ground surrounding Erta Ale is an enormous pool of active magma. The lake goes through cycles and will cool, form a black layer on top, and then suddenly convect back into liquid lava. Occasionally, due to pressure, “fountains” of lava will form, spewing lava in 6- to 13-foot-high plumes.
The volcano itself has erupted in 1873, 1903, 1940, 1960, 1967, and 2005, when it killed hundreds of livestock and forced thousands to flee. In 2007 lava flows once again forced evacuation and two people went missing, and were presumably killed.
Despite the harsh conditions, danger of volcanic eruption, and extreme heat, Erta Ale has become something of a tourist destination recently. Whereas in 2002 the area was accessible only by helicopter, today adventure tourism groups take trips to the volcano lakes and it is now possible to drive within 4.3 miles of the volcano.
----------------------------------------
Title: Manyate Coffee Village
Description: An Ethiopian cloud forest protects some of the last wild arabica plants.
Content: The Harenna forest lies about 250 miles southeast of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Protected within Bale Mountains National Park, the rainforest hides a tangle of flora beneath the shroud of an often-present, low-lying cloud. And tucked among the dense greenery grows some of the world’s last wild coffee.
Most people have never tasted wild coffee. Farmers who cultivate the crop are almost exclusively responsible for all commercially-available beans. Ethiopia is home to some of the last remaining wild arabica plants (according to a 2017 study, nearly 60 percent of the world’s wild coffee is under threat of extinction). You can sample a cup made from these plants at Manyate Coffee Village, situated on Harenna’s southern edge. Here, at an altitude of around 5,250 feet, arabica flourishes under the shade of massive, mossy trees.
Farmers living in the area depend on the crop for income, and approximately 3,000 individuals gather coffee cherries from the Harenna forest. Harvesters select the bright red fruit by hand, a process that, according to Slow Food International, “is often obstructed by baboons.” After collection, no processing or cleaning is required; farmers simply leave their yield to dry in suspended nets or beneath the sun.
Residents of Manyate established a community group known as the Sankate Association to better develop the forest’s small-scale industries. Visitors can try native coffee and honey, purchase artisan crafts, go camping, and take guided tours. Sankate’s coffee house offers traditional Ethiopian coffee ceremonies, and, during harvest season, guests can pluck their own ripened cherries.
----------------------------------------
Title: Abuna Yemata Guh
Description: Reaching the "Church in the Sky" requires scaling the cliff face of a sandstone pinnacle with a 650-foot drop.
Content: If you think going to a normal church can be an enlightening experience, imagine going to worship in a rock-hewn painted cave atop a towering sandstone pinnacle, only reachable via a daredevil climb with 650-foot drops on all sides. 
At Abuna Yemata Guh in northern Ethiopia, this risky and thrilling experience is common practice for a few dedicated priests. The monolithic place of worship is said to be the world’s most inaccessible and dangerous church, reachable only by a 45-minute ascent. 
The journey has cliff faces to scale, rickety bridges to cross, and narrow ledges to traverse. After crossing through the valley that underlies the church, you must ascend the half-mile-high sandstone pinnacle, searching for rare footholds to avoid the long drop. Adding to the general sense of dread, the route passes by an open-air tomb filled with the skeletal remains of deceased priests (although it’s said that none of the priests died from falling off the cliff).
If the intense climb and the gorgeous view of the valley below aren’t enough to take your breath away, the interior of the church surely will. The cave’s ceiling is covered by two beautiful frescoes, featuring intricate patterns, religious imagery, and the faces of nine of the twelve apostles of Christ. The church also contains an Orthodox Bible with vibrant, colorful sheets made of goatskin. Abuna Yemata Church is so sacred that some Ethiopian parents even risk bringing their babies all the way to the top of the cliff to have them baptized there.
The church is named after Father Yemata, a priest who carved the church out of the cliff face in the 5th century. Some say he chose the high location to escape enemies, while others believe it was an attempt to find true divinity. Either way, his rock-hewn masterpiece has provided a unique opportunity for Ethiopian Christians to demonstrate their commitment to their faith in epic fashion.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chapel of the Tablet
Description: Supposedly this Ethiopian chapel holds the Ark of the Covenant, guarded by virgins who cannot leave the building.
Content: The popular image of the Ark of the Covenant was immortalized in Raiders of the Lost Ark,  but supposedly the real life Ark is held in this Ethiopian chapel, guarded by a virgin sentinel who must never leave the building.  
The Church of Our Lady Mary of Zion is said to have existed in some form on this spot since around the 4th century CE. As the story goes, the Ark was brought to Ethiopia, by the son of the Queen of Sheba, and placed in the church where it has stayed ever since. The structures of the church have been destroyed and rebuilt a number of times over the years. The current domed church building was built in the 1950s by Emperor Haile Selassie.
Despite their continued claims to have the Ark stored away in the catacombs of the Chapel of the Tablet, no one seems to have seen it. The only person who is allowed to see the artifact is the Guardian of the Covenant, the appointed guard of the Ark. This guard must be a virgin and they are chosen by the previous guard prior to their death. Once a guard is chosen, they supposedly cannot leave the chapel, lest the Ark go unguarded. Not even the leader of the Ethiopian church can see the Ark.
Whether or not the Ark truly resides beneath the chapel, the site still draws thousands of pilgrims each year, who come and view the chapel from outside the red fence that keep the faithful on the perimeter.
----------------------------------------
Title: Obelisk of Axum
Description: Massive stele returned to Ethiopia after 70 years in Rome.
Content: Considering the size of the Obelisk of Axum, it is truly amazing that it was transported between continents twice during the last 100 years. However, for many people in Ethiopia, the return of the massive stele was an important milestone in bolstering national pride and celebrating Ethiopia’s history.
From the early 4th century B.C.E until the 10th century C.E, the Kingdom of Axum was one of the greatest powers on earth. Centered as a trade city between Persia and Rome, the city of Axum flourished in culture, power and wealth. A pagan Kingdom during its early peak, giant pillars were erected to mark the tombs of important leaders.
In the 4th century, the King Ezana of Axum solidified the Kingdom’s conversion to Christianity, and stopped all pagan practices, including the erection of burial stelea such as the 80-foot Obelisk of Axum. Standing only until the 16th century, an earthquake likely toppled the obelisk, and without any importance in a Christian society it was left in multiple pieces to disintegrate back into sand.
The Obelisk lay in ruin for hundreds of years until it was re-discovered by Italian soldiers during the conquest of Ethiopia in 1935. Brought back in three pieces, the 160-ton stele was taken as loot to Rome, where it was reassembled. After world war II, the UN ruled that the stele must be returned to Ethiopia, but complications arose almost immediately.
After years of fighting and delays, the Obelisk was finally returned to Ethiopia in 2007. The pieces were re-assembled and the Obelisk was placed near two other famous stelea; the Great Stelea standing at 108 feet, and the King Ezana stele, erected to the King that outlawed their use when he brought Christianity to his kingdom.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Afar Rift
Description: An ocean in the making, in the Ethiopian desert.
Content: Plate tectonics is not a spectator activity. The Afar Depression, for example, pulls apart at the staggering rate of less than an inch per year. Given 30 million years, however, even slow progressions such as this one can produce dramatic results.
The Arabian and African Plates meet in the Afar Desert in Northern Ethiopia, and in 2005 a 10-day period of seismic activity led to a 35 mile rift that is over 20 feet wide at certain points. The eruption of Dabbahu, a volcano at the northern edge of the rift, signaled the start of a series of volcanic breaches in the Earth’s crust that shot magma and clouds of ash into the sky and sent earthquakes throughout the region.
Researchers have taken particular interest in the Afar Rift because of new studies indicating that changes observed there mimic those that occur in ocean formation thousands of miles below sea-level. Indeed, it is now believed that within the next million years the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden will both pour into the Depression and meet, creating a new ocean in what is now desert.
Scientists hope that by studying the Rift they might gain insight into processes that have, up until this point, been shrouded in mystery. Activity in underwater mantle usually occurs too deep in the ocean to be monitored by current technology, and already the data from the 2005 eruptions have challenged theories as to how oceans were created.
----------------------------------------
Title: Yemrehanna Kristos Church
Description: An ancient Ethiopian cave church is endangered by the simple building of a road.
Content: The ancient Yemrehanna Kristos Church in Ethiopia is not only located in a cave, but may be one of the most elaborate churches of its kind in the entire country. 
Believed to have been built between the 11th and 12th century, the wood and plaster church is nestled inside a natural cavern that has likely kept the church from deteriorating completely over its centuries of service. The exterior of the church face consists of stacked layers of protruding stonework interlaced with wooden beams. The windows are covered with wooden cruciform designs and the main door is said to have been taken from a nearby palace. Inside the church, the walls are covered in wood paneling. There are also tall wooden arches which have delicate designs carved into their every surface. 
Over the centuries, the church has been a relatively popular pilgrimage site where devoted pilgrims were known to come to die. Their bones are buried behind the church into the cave wall.
The church is still in active service to this day, and a security wall has been erected over the cave mouth to keep the site safe. Although the church is far off the beaten path, a new road has brought newfound attention and visitors which may jeopardize the safety of the ancient architecture. In the interest of retaining the site’s unique historical value, the Yemrehanna Kristos Church was recently placed on the 2014 World Monuments Watch list of important places to preserve.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hadar Archaeological Site
Description: The skeletal remains of the famous hominid "Lucy" were found at this spot.
Content: On November 24, 1974, paleoanthropologist Donald Johanson spotted something odd poking out from a dry gully within the archeological site around Hadar, Ethiopia. There, a thin arm bone was visible against the dry, dusty earth. Johanson kept looking and soon found additional skeletal remains—a femur here, some ribs there—scattered nearby.
By the end of the excavation, Johanson and his colleagues had unearthed about 40 percent of a roughly 3.2 million-year-old skeleton. These bits of bone were the only pieces they could work with while puzzling together the identity of “Lucy,” the now world-famous hominid. Though officially named AL 288-1, Lucy was given her more popular moniker as a nod to the Beatles song that was played repeatedly during the camp’s celebrations honoring her discovery.
By studying her remains, the researchers were eventually able to determine that Lucy is a member of the Australopithecus afarensis species, a hominid that went extinct about 2.9 million years ago. After reading the clues hidden in the fragments of her skeleton, they also concluded that the ancient female walked upright and died when she was only a young adult.
Lucy’s skeleton wasn’t the only hominid unearthed at Hadar. The fossilized skull of Selam, a three-year-old hominid that died about 3.3 million years ago, was discovered during a later dig. Other hominid remains have been found spread throughout the sedimentary rocks as well.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tiya Stelae
Description: Ethiopian standing stones featuring remarkably preserved carvings of swords and people.
Content: Just outside the Ethiopian capitol of Addis Ababa in lie the archeologically wondrous Tiya Stelae, mysterious carved stones whose purpose continues to elude researchers.
Ethiopia is known for its rich wealth of megalithic sites and well preserved prehistoric finds, but the 30-some stones located in the Tiya region are among the most remarkable. Each of the squat stone obelisks is carved with primitive, yet clear images of swords, geometric shapes, and figures. Despite a healthy amount of research at the site, no one has been able to determine the exact age or purpose of the stones, although popular thinking has it that they served a funerary function due to some tombs which were found nearby. Whatever the true use of the carved rocks, they offer a relatively pristine glimpse back to a time we know little about.
----------------------------------------
Title: Red Terror Martyrs' Memorial Museum
Description: A powerful tribute to the victims who suffered under Ethiopia's most devastating regime.
Content: The “Red Terror” Martyr’s Memorial Museum in Addis Ababa was unveiled in 2010 to honor the victims of Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Derg Regime. Anywhere between 500,000 and 750,000 people were tortured and killed during the brutality.
The museum is a memorial to the martyrs who fought against the dictator’s violent military campaign. Although the museum is modern, clean, and well presented, it doesn’t pull any punches. It’s full of coffins, bloodied clothes, and images that tell the story of this devastating period in the country’s history.
One particular room contains a number of glass-fronted partitions displaying the remains and personal effects of people killed by the regime. The remains had been exhumed and placed in the museum as they had been found. Some of them even included the rope used to strangle the person. Each partition also includes a photo of the victim.
Ethiopia’s “Red Terror” reached its height between 1977 and 1978. Men, women, and children from various ethnic groups were tortured and killed under the dictator’s plan to rid the country of those who allegedly opposed his party. Citizens were captured and tortured before their dead bodies were dumped in the streets.
Some of the museum guides themselves are victims of the terror, pointing out that they too suffered the various methods of torture displayed in graphic detail by mannequins.
The museum is free but does rely on donations. After witnessing the exhibits in this building it would be hard not to leave a generous sum.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lioness of Gobedra
Description: According to one local legend, this image was created during a battle between a wild lioness and the archangel Michael.
Content: A couple of kilometers west of the ancient city of Axum stands the isolated hill of Gobo Dura, alternatively known as Gobedra. The city in Ethiopia is known for stonework, including elaborately carved stelae and a striking work of ancient art known as the Lioness of Gobedra.
It was first described to the western world by German archaeologists in 1913, but had been known to locals for far longer. The origin of the three-meter-long sculpture, engraved on a huge syenite boulder, has been a mystery for quite some time. One local story holds that the carving is a relic from a tremendous battle between a wild lioness and the archangel Michael. It is said that when Michael hurled his opponent into the rock, the impact was so great that the beast’s outline remained. The truth is still a subject of speculation, but the stone lioness is likely thousands of years old.
Since it stands beside the road leading to Axum, it is possible that the rock art was an ancient landmark. This has not been confirmed, and it remains unknown when it was created, who made it, or for what purpose. 
Another engraving that depicts a Greek cross is also visible on the same boulder, also of unknown origins. Nearby, there is an ancient quarry called Wuchate Golo, where the famous stelae in Axum are believed to have been carved. Some uncompleted, abandoned stelae can be spotted here as well.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gaet’ale Pond
Description: The Earth's saltiest natural body of water belches toxic gas.
Content: Gaet’ale Pond is the saltiest naturally-occurring body of water on Earth. It also belches out toxic gas that kills small birds, insects and, potentially, humans.
The Afar Depression in northern Ethiopia is one of the most tectonically active regions in the world. Shaped by volcanic activity, the floor of the depression is largely composed of lava, and the area is riddled with fascinating natural formations that bake in the scorching sun.
One such feature is Gaet’ale Pond, the largest of a series of small bodies of water a few miles from Dallol, one of the hottest inhabited locations on Earth. The roughly semi-circular lake has a diameter of about 197 feet. According to locals, it was formed after an earthquake in January 2005.
Despite its balmy 122-to-155-degree Fahrenheit temperature, Gaet’ale Pond is certainly not the place for a hot dip in the water. It often belches out toxic gases, as evidenced by the dead insects and birds often found near its shores, and researchers consider it a dangerous—and potentially lethal—health hazard for human visitors.
But what really sets Gaet’ale Pond apart is its salt content. Thanks to volcanic processes in the area, the pond has an incredibly high salinity of 43 percent (mainly calcium chloride and magnesium chloride), making it the saltiest body of water on Earth.
To put that into perspective, the water in Gaet’ale Pond is more than 12 times saltier than the water in the world’s oceans, which have a salinity of approximately 3.5 percent. The world’s most famous salty sea, the Dead Sea, has a salinity of 33.7 percent. And the world’s second saltiest body of water, Don Juan Pond in Antarctica, has a salinity of at least 33.8 percent.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chemin de Fer Railway Museum
Description: Rusting railcars and locomotive equipment fill this Ethiopian train graveyard.
Content: Usually when a rail line is decommissioned, the cars and equipment simply disappear, sold off or thrown away, but this old Ethiopian line has been turned into a sort of rusty folk museum.  
The Railway Station at Dire Dawa was the only formal waystation on the railway line which operated from Djibouti on the coast to Addis Ababa in the Ethiopian highlands. The railway line which was constructed and operated by a French company the Chemin de Fer Ethiopien began operations in the reign of Emperor Menelik II and was completed in 1929.
The Railway Line ceased running in the early 2000s and is currently being upgraded into a more modern service. However, when the service stopped, most of the rolling stock, trains, and carriages ended up in the Dire Dawa Station where a museum of sorts has been established.
The museum is a wonderful collection of train memorabilia slowly decaying in the Ethiopian sun. One will receive a tour from the curator, an elderly man who was employed by the railway and speaks a smattering of English, fluent Amharic, and good French, the operational language of the railway. French signs can still be seen hanging in the workshops and there are railway carriages from the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd classes dating from the 1950s. There are a selection of diesel engines and some minor gems such as the rusted shell of an Italian locomotive from the 1940s and some wagons supposedly gifted to the former Communist regime by Mugabe and used to transport tanks.
Wandering around, with bee-eaters providing little bursts of color as they flit between the old telegraph wires, the curator is perfectly happy for all the exhibits to be handled and clambered on, actively encouraging people to “get in,” unafraid that a little bit more of an engine may crumble into the rust colored soil.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gedi Ruins
Description: Abandoned city hidden from the world by tropical forest and isolation on the coast of Kenya.
Content: The Gedi ruins are one of Kenya’s great mysteries. Set in an idyllic location on the Indian Ocean, and buried deep in a lush forest, the town was thought to have been founded in the early 13th-century, although hard evidence eludes most scientists. But what has really baffled researchers is the well-established town’s mysterious abandonment and incredible development.
Left standing today are numerous coral-brick houses, a palace as well as an impressive mosque. However, it is not only the quality of the ruins that amazes visitors but the advanced nature of the settlement. Gedi was in many ways, a very advanced city with streets, running water and flushing toilets.
Correcting the assumption that Africa was far behind the rest of the world before colonialism, Gedi was a cosmopolitan urban setting, and archeologists have found Ming Chinese vases, Venetian glass as well as other artifacts from all over the world. This potpourri of history is clear evidence that the Muslim inhabitants of the coastal Kenyan town traded heavily with cultures outside their own, and developed an incredible world that has now been deeply decomposed by tropical forests.
Excavation has occurred since 1948, and the entire area is protected as a national park in Kenya.
----------------------------------------
Title: Giraffe Manor
Description: Just outside of Nairobi lies a large estate surrounded by endangered Rothschild giraffes, who have been fed from the window by Mick Jagger and Walter Cronkite.
Content: The Rothschild Giraffe is one of the most endangered giraffe subspecies in the entire world. They have gone extinct in South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo and only remain in Kenya and Uganda, where their numbers are quite scarce. 
To try to combat this problem, the African Fund for Endangered Wildlife founded the Giraffe Center in 1979 with the intention of breeding Rothschild Giraffes on a 140 acre plot of land. Their attempt to increase the population of the giraffes and return them to national parks was a success. Since then they have been focusing on educating Kenyan youth about the importance of conservation. 
The founders of the Giraffe Center also needed a place to live, and there happened to be an ivy-covered, brick mansion located right in the middle of the breeding grounds. After residing there for a few years, the founders came up with a brilliant idea: turning the mansion into a luxurious 10-room hotel called “Giraffe Manor.”
It couldn’t have been a better idea. Nowadays, Giraffe Manor is one of the most iconic and unique hotels in the world. Every morning, the giraffes from the Giraffe Center walk from their natural habitat to the windows of the Giraffe Manor to eat breakfast with the guests. Seriously.
They either crane their necks down to reach the lower rooms or they stretch their necks up to reach the windows of the upper floor. They slurp up whatever is on the plate, with their faces right next to those the hotel guests. Since they have unrestricted roaming rights, this is purely by choice. When they’re done eating, they maneuver their heads out of the giant windows of Giraffe Manor and continue on with their normal lives.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ali Barbour's Cave Restaurant
Description: Drink and dine in a coral cave that's at least 120,000 years old.
Content: Visitors flock to Kenya’s Diani Beach for the white sands and ritzy resorts, but the setting sun reveals the splendor of another local gem, Ali Barbour’s Cave Restaurant. Diners enter through an unassuming, whitewashed facade, then descend 33 feet underground to enjoy their meals in an ancient coral cave with a wide mouth overhead for excellent stargazing.
Located in a cave thought to be between 120,000 and 180,000 years old, Ali Barbour’s takes dining al fresco to a whole other dimension. In the evenings, the restaurant glows in the muted light of candles, and diners’ eyes are naturally drawn to the twinkling stars above. (Sliding covers are drawn to create a makeshift roof in inclement weather.)
Founded by George and Jackie Barbour in the 1980s and named as a play on “Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves,” the restaurant is designed to keep the natural elements of the cave intact, with only the kitchen and bathrooms modified for modern uses. Though the menu is international, seafood is the specialty. You can dine on a meal caught in the Indian Ocean, mere feet from your table, and possibly at the same sea level.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nairobi Animal Orphanage
Description: Located in Nairobi National Park, this animal orphanage is the oldest of its kind in Kenya.
Content: Founded in 1964, the Nairobi Animal Orphanage houses and treats over 20 animal and bird species in need of rehabilitation after injury or abandonment. 
Lions, cheetahs, jackals, hyenas, ostriches, parrots, and more inhabit the orphanage, which welcomes over 200,000 visitors each year.
The Nairobi Animal Orphanage is both a conservation facility for animals in need and an educational resource for the public—mainly school children who wouldn’t otherwise have an opportunity to see these animals in the wild. 
While it’s far from the majesty of seeing these creatures healthy in their natural habitats, each of the animals in the Nairobi Animal Orphanage has been taken in by park rangers to receive medical treatment before being placed in an individualized rehabilitation program for a second chance at life. The goal of the orphanage is to strengthen the animals so they may eventually be released back into the wild.
The Nairobi Animal Orphanage is located just inside Nairobi National Park just 20 minutes from the center of Nairobi, making it the world’s only capital city to also contain a national park. The orphanage is open to the public, and various tour companies offer stops there as part of safari packages.
----------------------------------------
Title: Giraffe Centre
Description: Get tall with nature's lankiest beasts and their warthog friends at this Kenyan preserve.
Content: Like the short-haired brontosauri of the modern day, giraffes are almost hilariously tall, and certainly don’t seem like the type of creatures one could feed snacks to, but at Kenya’s Giraffe Centre getting face-to-face with the gentle giant is the order of the day.
The centre was opened in 1983, but its track record of preservation goes back years earlier. The project that would grow into the Giraffe Centre first began in 1979 by Jock and Betty Leslie-Manville who set out to save the nearly extinct Rothschild giraffe. The couple’s project began when they captured a baby giraffe and set out to establish a breeding program to repopulate the spotted creatures. The Leslie-Manville’s started to raise giraffes right on their own property, and soon the centre was born with the addition of a private education center.
The repopulation project took off and the centre was able to reintroduce fertile giraffe couples to a number of Kenyan national parks. Of course they still kept a number of the animals at their center.
The Giraffe Centre opened to the public in the early eighties and is now simply part of a larger non-profit organization, the African Fund for Endangered Wildlife (Kenya) Ltd. Visitors can come to the centre and actually get right up into the faces of the giraffes via raised walkways. The animals can be fed little snack pellets and might even reciprocate with a lick with their big purple tongues. Adorable and gross.
A number of warthogs also roam the grounds.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kitum Cave
Description: A salty cave excavated by elephants and the location of a deadly disease vector.
Content: When the Kitum Cave was first discovered, the many marks, scratches, and furrows along its walls were assumed to have been the work of picks wielded by ancient Egyptians searching for gold or diamonds. In fact, the excavated sections of the cave are the result of something much more unusual.
The cave is found on Mount Elgon, an extinct shield volcano, and it developed as the result of cooling volcanic rock. The cave, which extends some 600 feet into the mountain, has walls that are rich in salt, and it is here that the mysterious cave diggers reveal themselves.
Each night for hundreds (possibly thousands) of years, animals have traveled into the cave in the dead of night to use it as a giant salt lick. Buffaloes, antelope, leopards, hyenas, and most of all elephants bumble blindly through the cave (the elephants often bump their heads in the process), making their way to the salty walls of the cave. It is the elephants that have done the digging.
Using their massive tusks, the elephants pull off chunks of the walls to crush and lick up the salt. Over the centuries this has resulted in a noticeable increase in the size of the cave as well as walls that are covered in tusk marks. The trip to the depths of the cave is not without its dangers; there is a deep crevasse into which many younger, more inexperienced elephants have fallen, leaving behind an elephant graveyard.
The Kitum Cave is more recently famous for a very different sort of lifeform: a deadly virus. In 1980 and again in 1987, visitors to the cave contracted Marburg virus, a deadly virus similar to Ebola. The cave and Marburg virus rose to notoriety when they were featured in the 1994 bestseller The Hot Zone. It is believed that bats in the cave are carriers of the virus, and that their powdered guano may act as the disease vector.
----------------------------------------
Title: Marafa Depression
Description: Strange sandstone canyon known as the "place broken by itself."
Content: The Marafa Depression, also known as Hell’s Kitchen, is an odd sandstone canyon outside of Malindi, Kenya. Known locally as Nyari - “the place broken by itself” - it was once a great sandstone ridge worn by wind, rain, and floods into a series of jagged gorges. The layer-cake colors of the sandstone reveal whites, pinks, oranges, and deep crimsons, making the gorge particularly striking at sundown, when tones of the ribbed sandstone gullies are highlighted and mirrored by those of the setting sun.
Naturally, local stories accompany the “place broken by itself.” According to legend, there was once a town located where the gorge is now. One day, all the town’s inhabitants received a vision telling them a miracle was coming and to move their town. Everyone moved except one old woman who refused to leave. The abandoned town then supposedly vanished - with the remaining woman still inside - leaving the Marafa Depression in its place.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mara River Crossing
Description: Life and death are on parade at the most reliably perilous site of “the Great Migration.”
Content: One of Earth’s most spectacular wildlife events takes place each year in the heart of eastern Africa, culminating at a river crossing where nature coldly decides who lives to see another season.
Dubbed “The Great Migration,” 1.5 million wildebeest, zebras, and gazelle follow a circular migratory route throughout the Serengeti and Maasai Mara ecosystems, fraught with a series of river passages whose raging currents and predatory beasts lurking in the shallows make the endeavor more than just a simple swim.
After having forded the formidable Grumeti River in Tanzania, the remaining herd makes its way north from July through October to meandering Mara River. Along its banks, the wildebeest queue up as far as they eye can see, waiting to take the season’s final plunge in hopes of finding promise greener grasses – and, new studies show, better drinking water – on the other side.
Before they can get there, throngs of hungry crocodiles lie in wait. For the wildebeest, getting to the other side alive is a lot like a very dangerous, inescapable game of roulette. Carcasses of those who didn’t make it litter the Mara’s banks. Vultures feast on what the crocodiles left behind.
Immortalized by Attenborough, such scenes of Nature ruthlessly sorting animals into those who live and those who die has become at once inspiring and macabre. No wonder the Mara crossing has become the kind of place travelers wait lifetime to visit in person. It is the world’s most quintessential struggle, played out in realtime, before one’s eyes… and among few places on the planet where it can be witnessed reliably, year after year.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kitengela
Description: A glass and sculpture wonderland forms an oasis in a remote part of Kenya.
Content: When German art brut exponent Nani Croze settled in the desert across the road from Nairobi National Park in the 1970s, she had no reprieve from the scorching Kenyan sun. There were few trees, so the artist began making sculptures to create shade.
“[It] started as a pioneer homestead and grew into an oasis,” Croze has said. Now, the Kitengela settlement is a community, a glassworks, a hotel, and a sculpture garden that’s something like a cross between the splendorous architecture of Antoni Gaudí and a Hobbit village. 
The settlement is a wonderland with hidden works of art around every corner. The sculptures depict a fantastical world filled with dragons, butterflies and abstract, multicolored giants. In spite of the fact that every staircase and windowsill has been painted and molded to the artists’ satisfaction, Kitengela appears to have grown organically out of the earth.
Kitengela’s purpose is to improve the community. Its most obvious contribution is aesthetic beauty, but it also gives back in more tangible ways. Croze has partnered with hospitals and charities, giving away her own work and lessons. The materials used in Kitengela’s sculptures is all found and recycled, and they are as likely to be built by creative locals as by professional artists. Croze also hosts workshops and apprenticeships at Kitengela, some geared specifically for women to learn the art of glassmaking and mosaic. 
Kitengela has turned into a sort of commune—the studio on the property employs about 50 people, many of whom live there with their families as well. Visitors are also welcome to stay at Kitengela. Croze has several cottages available for short-term rentals, but be warned: None are free of animal life. Kitengela has its own pigs, ducks, and geese, but given that the community is adjacent to a national park, baboons, giraffes, and ostriches are just as commonly seen.
----------------------------------------
Title: Carnivore Restaurant
Description: Kenyan restaurant is a carnivore's paradise, serving exotic meats at its ultimate 'Beast of a Feast.'
Content: Hidden within a tropical garden and adorned with a loud, colorful décor, The Carnivore opens up into a vegetarian’s fiery nightmare, or a meat eaters Shangri-la, depending on your culinary leanings.
Twice making the world’s 50 best restaurants by Restaurant Magazine, Carnivore opened in 1980 to immediate popularity. Borrowing aesthetic from medieval banquet halls, the decor is indoor/outdoor with tropical plants and streams weaving around tables. A giant roasting pit resides near the entrance of the building, covered in traditional Maasai swords ladened with hunks of meaty goodness from just about every animal you can think of that’s not on the endangered species list.
Constantly being turned and basted over the pit are selections of the likely suspects at any BBQ–chicken wings, spare ribs, lamb, and different cuts of pork and beef. For the more adventurous there are bolder choices, such as camel, crocodile, tasty kidney morsels, and mutura, a local sausage consisting of cow or goat meat, tripe, and cooled blood seasoned with onions, salt, pepper, and chili. After being seated and served some gratuitous soup and bread and introduced to a double-decker revolving tray of exotic sauces, the diners are then inundated with servers carrying the meat-encumbered Maasai swords, offering the succulent outside cut of whatever strikes the customers fancy.
Truly a practice in excess, visitors are encouraged to continue shoving food down their gullets until they can take no more, signaling their surrender by lowering a white flag provided for them in the center of the table. When the servers have been alerted to their victory, they will then bring around desert and coffee to those who are up to the challenge.
Besides the meat orgy, Carnivore also has a nightclub, gardens, a playground for children, signature cocktails, an events area, an African heritage gallery, and believe it or not, a vegetarian menu.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bomas of Kenya
Description: This tourist village in Nairobi celebrates the traditional lifestyles and customs of Kenyan tribes.
Content: Billed as “Kenya in miniature,” Bomas of Kenya is a tourist village and cultural center six miles outside of Nairobi. It features replicas of traditional homesteads, or bomas, from 23 of Kenya’s ethnic groups, as well as traditional dances performed in its large auditorium.
Bomas of Kenya was founded by the Kenya Tourist Development Cooperation in 1971. It was conceived and planned by Barack Obama Sr., although you won’t find any mention of him on the official website. Despite being the driving force behind the project, Obama Sr. was fired in controversial circumstances, his superiors unhappy at what they saw as his overuse of unilateral decision making.
Despite the acrimonious beginning, the center went on to become a successful celebration of more than 40 ethnic groups in Kenya. The name of the tourist village comes from the Swahili word boma, meaning homestead, referring to the 23 replica villages found on the site, each displaying the unique characteristics of their respective ethnic group.
At first glance, these round huts all appear much the same. But on further inspection, important and distinct social structures emerge. The organization of the various homesteads reveals telling details about the particular ethnic group.
For example, the planning of homesteads in polygamous groups reflects this distinct hierarchy (first wife’s hut, second wife’s hut etc.). In other homesteads, the size and distribution of granaries reveals the responsibilities and importance of particular family members. Different construction methods, and forms of partitioning and decorations within homes, also vary between groups, highlighting important cultural differences.
Along with the homesteads, one other key structure at Bomas of Kenya is the 3,000-capacity auditorium, one of the largest of its kind in Africa. Build in the shape of an African hut, the auditorium hosts daily song and dance performances from many of Kenya’s ethnic groups. These represent a diverse tribal cultural spectrum, and include everything from Kalenjin warrior dances to Swahili taarab music and Kikuyu circumcision ceremonies (minus the actual circumcision).
Completing the cultural showcase is the Utamaduni Restaurant, where traditional Kenyan gastronomy is celebrated with dishes from various parts of the country.
----------------------------------------
Title: Fort Jesus
Description: This colonial fort is an intriguing example of Renaissance military architecture.
Content: The structure of Fort Jesus resembles the shape of a human body, with the head pointing toward the sea. The structure is an interesting blend of colonial and indigenous techniques. It’s a showcase of Renaissance military architecture built with locally available coral stone and lime mortar worked on using local techniques.
Fort Jesus was completed in 1596. It was commissioned by King Philip I of Portugal and designed by renowned architect Giovanni Battista Cairati. In the subsequent 300 years, the fort changed hands at least 10 times, with the Portuguese, Swahilis, Omani Arabs, and eventually British vying to own it. Possession of this strategic fort indicated the power a given government had in controlling trade over the Indian Ocean.
The original walls, which were designed to withstand cannon balls, used to be nearly 50 feet (15 meters) high, and the Omanis increased their height by nine feet. Eventually, the walls were used to not only keep invaders out, but to keep people in as well. The British converted the fort into a prison in 1895, and it served this purpose until 1958, when it was declared a national monument. And in 2011, the fort became a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The fort in its current form is an amalgamation of European, African, and Middle-Eastern building styles, which blend seamlessly. The ramparts offer an expansive view of the Port of Mombasa. The rooms of the fort now house a museum shedding light to the history of the fort and Mombasa.
----------------------------------------
Title: Donkeys of Lamu Island
Description: Kenya’s oldest town is more than 700 years old and home to 6,000 donkeys.
Content: Off the northern coast of Kenya, close to the border with Somalia, sits Lamu Island. Founded in 1370, it is the oldest continuously inhabited settlement in the country, and has largely remained unchanged over the centuries.
The streets are narrow—often no more than two shoulder lengths in width—meaning that traversing the island by car is impossible. Instead, there are donkeys—more than 6,000 of them, used for transporting goods and people through the town. 
So important are these animals that the largest nonprofit on the island is a donkey sanctuary and one of the two cars on the island is an ambulance for donkeys. Each year the Lamu Cultural Festival celebrates the animals with a donkey race down the island’s beaches. Crowds of thousands gather to watch the local donkey jockeys compete head to head for the title.
Strategically located along ancient trade routes between the Middle East and South Asia, Lamu Island was once the most important trade hub in the region. It is one of the clearest example of Swahili architecture—a fusion of South Asian, the Middle Eastern, and the East African styles—where ornately carved wooden doors are the gateways into multigenerational family homes made of local coral stone.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Turkana
Description: The world’s largest permanent desert lake is a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Content: Lake Turkana, Africa’s fourth largest and most saline lake, is a desolate wonder located in the arid desert region of the Kenyan Rift Valley, piercing the border of Ethiopia at its northernmost end. 
Also referred to as Lake Rudolf after European visitors named the lake after a 19th century Austrian prince, and Jade Lake for the verdant color of the water, Lake Turkana is a vast but shallow body of water that stretches over 150 miles long and up to 20 miles wide. 
The lake is an imperative resource for peoples in the surrounding desert region, migratory birds including flamingos, cormorants, and kingfishers, and local wildlife like the Nile Crocodile, hippos, and fish such as Nile perch, tigerfish, and tilapia. Lake Turkana and its islands were designated national parks in the 1970s and 80s.
In 1997, Lake Turkana National Parks were collectively made a UNESCO World Heritage Site for the region’s extraordinary biodiversity. While UNESCO status requires the lake’s protection, Lake Turkana has since been placed on the World Heritage “In Danger” list for poor conservation practices and overdevelopment.
----------------------------------------
Title: African Heritage House
Description: This beautiful, all-in-one museum, private residence, and bed and breakfast houses a rich collection of African art.
Content: Overlooking Nairobi National Park, the African Heritage House is an architectural gem dedicated to African art. The house was designed in the early 1990s by Alan Donovan, an American who first arrived in the continent as a relief worker in the 1960s. In 1972, he opened the African Heritage Gallery with Joseph Murumbi, a former Kenyan vice president and avid collector, and Murumbi’s wife, a prequel to the current museum.
The African Heritage House is the fruit of one Donovan’s love of Africa and his desire to preserve and share artifacts he has gathered from all over the continent. Inside the house, whose exterior is inspired by the mosques of Mali, visitors can go room to room, observing furniture, textiles, masks, art, jewelry, artifacts, crafts, books, and photographs. As the African Heritage House is also Donovan’s home, he serves as a gracious guide and host, sharing both his life story and his knowledge of the collection, which includes ceremonial daggers from Benin, a Yoruba wooden headdress, giant calabashes, camel blankets, and much more.
If you wish, the African Heritage House can be your home for a night as well: It is a bed and breakfast, with different rooms following the styles and motifs of different parts of Africa, and the kitchen menu featuring an equal variety of dishes and cuisines.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nairobi Railway Museum
Description: Strolling through these vintage locomotives offers a surprising amount of insight into the history of Kenya.
Content: The construction of the so-called “lunatic line,” or Uganda Railway, began in 1896 from Mombasa on the Kenyan coast and finally reached Kisumu on the eastern shore of Lake Victoria in 1901, costing an estimated four lives for every mile of track laid along the way—including some deaths infamously caused by a pair of man-eating lions on the Tsavo plains.
Today, in the centre of Kenya’s capital city, the Nairobi Railway Museum is dedicated to the history of the country’s rail network. There you’ll find an intriguing jumble of artifacts plus a variety of exhibits and ephemera that illustrate the construction and running of the railway. There are models of railway engines that operated on the line, photographs of the railway throughout its history, and a varied selection of other oddities, including an interesting motorized railway bicycle.
In the surrounding yard are a number of mostly steam and some early diesel locomotives which operated as part of what was initially the Kenya-Uganda Railway, then the East Africa Railway Company and currently the Kenyan Railways Corporation. The most impressive are some of the company’s old “Garratts,” a particularly large articulated steam engine that was capable of hauling heavy loads over the long distances and steep inclines of the narrow gauge track. The museum is connected by track to the main Nairobi station and some of the engines are reportedly used for excursions.
Wandering on and around the locomotives makes for a lovely outing and gives you a surprising amount of insight into the nation’s development. The museum itself is almost a time capsule within a time capsule—a well preserved effort from the post-independence days of the 1970s to conserve an emblematic part of its colonial past. Fitting then is the location of the museum, tucked away amid the modern skyscrapers of the central business district. The rising buildings are a constant reminder that all these days are past, a fact further underlined by the ongoing replacement of the obsolete track laid in the 1800s.
----------------------------------------
Title: Avenue of the Baobabs
Description: The centuries old trees lining both sides of this dirt road may become Madagascar's first natural monument.
Content: The dirt road on the west coast of Madagascar linking Morondava and Belo Tsiribihina is framed by dozens of rare and ancient baobab trees creating a setting so beautiful and unique that it may become the country’s first official natural monument.
These giant, dry season-deciduous trees (members of the Mallow family), many of which are more than 800 years old with trunks that are over 150 feet around did not always stand alone. At one time the trees dotting the lane were part of a rich forest of the trees and other plants, but the encroachment of modern civilization and increasing populations in the area led to massive deforestation leaving the remaining baobabs to stand in relative isolation. There are also a handful of the ancient trees remaining in the outlying areas but both the trees along the road otherwise are under near-constant threat of destruction. When Arab seafarers first visited a bit over 1000 years ago, they said the devil ripped them out of the ground and put them back upside down, for their canopies resemble roots.
Thankfully, private organizations have taken notice of the site and are now promoting efforts to have the avenue protected, making it the country’s first nationally recognized natural monument, so that the trees might survive for another 800 years to come.  Baobabs are incredibly useful plants, their trunks are harmlessly tapped for water during the dry season and have even been lived in, the young leaves (when reachable) are eaten as a salad vegetable when little else is available, and the nutritious sour brown pulp (tasting somewhat like tamarind) of the hard-shelled fruits is made into a pleasant summertime beverage all over Africa, and is also an ingredient in a Senegalese peanut and couscous dessert pudding called Ngalakh. These trees are popular in novelty gardens around the warmer parts of the Mediterranean and sometimes show up in southern California, they are hardy to plant hardiness zone 10a (minimum of 30 to 35 F) and will not survive more than 8 to 10 hours in the snow. Another peculiar fact is that baobabs blossom, but the blooming period is very short, only about 24 hours.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Pirate Cemetery
Description: This picturesque island graveyard is the final resting place of dozens of notorious pirates.
Content: On the small island of Ile Sainte-Marie, four miles off the coast of eastern Madagascar, lie the bones of pirates who terrorized the seas during the 17th and 18th centuries.
For around 100 years, Ile Sainte-Marie was the off-season home of an estimated 1,000 pirates. A recently discovered map from 1733 refers to it simply as “the island of pirates.” Situated near the East Indies trade route, the beautiful tropical island’s numerous inlets and bays made it the perfect place to hide ships. Pirates from all over the world lived in wooden huts, adorned with flags that signified which captain’s “crew” they belonged to. It was a pirate’s paradise. There were local women to satisfy their lust, and plenty of tropical fruit to satisfy their hunger.
When one of the pirates died, they were buried on a scenic, palm shaded hilltop cemetery overlooking the water. Today, 30 headstones remain, including a few sketched with a skull and/or cross bones, the international symbol of piracy. Legend has it that the notorious William Kidd is buried in a large black tomb in the cemetery, sitting upright as punishment for his dastardly deeds. He was actually buried in England, but his legendary ship, the Adventure Galley (rediscovered in 2000), was left docked near the Island, and his booty is said to be buried somewhere in the surrounding sea. In fact, the prospect of undiscovered treasure, from at least half a dozen documented shipwrecks off the coast, continues to lure adventurous explorers to this very day.
The pirates were off Ile Sainte-Marie by the late 1700s, when the French forcibly seized the island. It was returned to Madagascar in 1960. Today, Ile Saint-Marie is a thriving tourist destination. The crumbling cemetery, its graves half covered by tall, swaying grass, is open to the public. It is an ironically peaceful and still place, filled with the bones of violent and restless men.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tsingy de Bemaraha National Park and Nature Reserve
Description: Fabulous formations, weird and wonderful wildlife.
Content: The word tsingy is indigenous to the Malagasy language as a description of the badlands of Madagascar. The word can be translated into English as “where one cannot walk barefoot.”
The tsingys are karstic plateaus where groundwater has undercut the elevated uplands, gouging caverns and fissures into the limestone. Because of local conditions, the erosion is patterned vertically as well as horizontally. In several regions on western Madagascar, centering on this National Park and adjacent Nature Reserve, the superposition of vertical and horizontal erosion patterns has created dramatic “forests” of limestone needles.
Surpassingly difficult to traverse, this landscape has created refuges within a refuge, where endemic species can be subdivided into pockets perhaps as small as a single limestone spike. Most expeditions to the area find a plant or animal previously undescribed by science. Wonders await around every corner - if your shoes haven’t been chewed away by the harsh terrain.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ambalabongo Canyon
Description: The runoff from these fiery cliffs sends red water flowing into the sea.
Content: This canyon stretches across the earth like a great red scar. The sandstone’s hues are so fiery, you’d be forgiven for mistaking it for Mars or some other martian landscape.
This gorgeous gorge is found in Ankarafantsika Nature Reserve, a national park in northwestern Madagascar. Unlike the rainforests of the east and spiny dry forests of the south, Ankarafantsika is more of a dry tropical forest with some savannah.
Although beautiful, this canyon has witnessed dark times thanks to heavy deforestation. Losing so many trees has left the land prone to erosion, which has caused the soil to crumble and move. The erosion is to the point that the red waters running into the sea can be seen from space. The canyon is a sight to behold, yet also a reminder to value and protect the plants that hold together such a wonderful place.
Inside this reserve, animals like chameleons (the largest in the world), vanga birds, and speckled butterflies are plentiful to the point of distraction. Primates like sifakas lazily lounge outside villager houses waiting for handouts while mongoose lemurs forage in pairs far above in the tree canopy.
----------------------------------------
Title: Aven Cave
Description: This underwater cave in Madagascar is home to what is thought to be the country's largest fossil graveyard.
Content: A flooded cave in Madagascar’s Tsimanampetsotsa Nature Reserve is also the home of a recently discovered underwater graveyard filled with fossils of long-extinct species, some several thousand years old.
A team of scientists led by Brooklyn College professor Alfred Rosenberger has discovered remarkably well-preserved fossils of turtles, rodents, crocodiles, and the elephant bird, an extinct flightless bird similar to an ostrich.
“We have a real cross-section of tiny things and big things,” Rosenberger told National Geographic. The big things in this case are the cave’s largest supplier of bones, extinct giant lemurs.
These predecessors to today’s lemurs lived up to their name, with some as large as gorillas. By comparison, the lemurs we know and love now range in weight from about an ounce up to 20 pounds. These giant primates went extinct between 2,000 and 500 years ago for reasons researchers are still trying to figure out.
How these bones ended up in the cave is another mystery. Rosenberger thinks that many washed up in the cave over time, before and after humans found their way to Madagascar.
Aven is one of three flooded caves in the park that researchers are exploring, and it may be Madagascar’s largest fossil graveyard. When the team first began exploring, the cave was so dense with bones that “divers felt them every time they put their hands down.” The Madagascar Cave Diving Association has recently set up an underwater museum to display some of the finds, and if you are an experienced diver, you can explore this submerged wonder.
----------------------------------------
Title: Parc de Tsarasaotra
Description: See hundreds of herons and egrets in the heart of the city in this dreamy hidden park.
Content: A wondrous oasis hidden in the middle of the city. See hundreds of egrets and herons along with ducks, butterflies, and the beautifully opalescent Madagascar Kingfisher.
Hidden away in an industrial part of Antanarivo, it’s an easy spot to miss. The sheer number of herons and egrets is that migrate here is surreal. The site acts as an important refuge for wildlife.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ambohimanga Main Gate
Description: Giant disc-shaped gate took 20 men to close off this city in Madagascar.
Content: In the 18th century, Ambohimanga was a town that needed to protect its royal family. Shielded naturally by forests, the town also erected a massive wall, and seven outer gates to protect its people. The main entrance of these seven gates guarding the town from attackers was known as Ambatomitsangana, the standing stone, and it proudly still waits in position to be used for protection. 
The standing stone is exactly as it sounds, a massive stone disc weighing 12 tons. As with many walled cities of the Merina Kingdom in Madagascar at the time, the gates were created out of circular discs that were pushed into position by hordes of men every night. The stone disc guarding Ambohimanga took 20 men, and was over 130 feet in circumference. Each night, these guards would roll the stone into position, blocking off the main entrance to the town. 
Today, the entire Ambohimanga area is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and is home to royal burial grounds, the queen’s pavilions and the gigantic standing stone.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Leper Tree
Description: A hollowed-out baobab that became the horrific final resting place of leprosy sufferers, with gruesome evidence to prove it.
Content: Liwonde National park is Malawi’s premiere wildlife reserve, teeming with wildlife, marshlands, and woodlands. But Liwonde also has a tragic history, the evidence of which is still visible deep inside the trunk of a massive baobab tree. 
Although predominately Christian, many of Malawi’s citizens adhere to an amalgam of Christian and more traditional, regional beliefs. Relatively common across these practices is the idea that those who are infected with certain diseases cannot be buried, for fear that their impurities would contaminate the earth.
As recently as the 1950s, one particular tribe living in Liwonde suffered an outbreak of leprosy. In order to keep the disease from spreading, individuals were rounded up and led to a giant baobab at the base of Chinguni Hill. According to park guides, the infected individuals–those still living, along with the bodies of the recently dead–were bound and forced into the tree’s hollowed-out trunk and left there for nature to take its course.
The “Leper Tree,” as it has become known, remains standing today though it doubles over to one side, and its bark peels and bursts in spots. On its trunk appears a hand-painted sign that simply reads: “The grave for people who suffered from leprosy in the past.”
Visitors brought to the site are told of this history and encouraged to look down into the center of the tree, where the empty sockets of human skulls plainly stare back up at the faces of the living, forcing a moment of stark contemplation in the midst of the park’s vast natural beauty.
----------------------------------------
Title: Saint Michael and All Angels Church
Description: This amateur-built East African church with mismatched towers is an architectural abnormality.
Content: Constructed by worshippers lacking any prior architectural or building experience, this remarkable amateur-built ecclesiastical anomaly has stood out in Blantyre, Malawi, since 1891. 
Blantyre, Malawi’s second largest city and its capital of commerce and industry, was founded in 1876 by Scottish missionaries and named after a small town outside Glasgow, Scotland. Little remains to hint at the bustling East African city’s Scottish roots, except for this seemingly out-of-place Presbyterian Church, which is said to be “the first permanent Christian church erected between the Zambezi and the Nile.” 
The current building was the brainchild of Scottish missionary and architecture rookie Reverend David Clement Scott, meant to replace a much less grand Presbyterian chapel. There were no detailed plans or drawings made for the church outside of Scott’s imagination. Beginning in 1888, brickwork was simply laid dry without mortar to test for strength and aesthetics before continuing to the next layer of the 37-foot-high structure.
The clay for the bricks was excavated and baked in wood kilns on site by parishioners, allowing the whole cathedral-like edifice to be erected in just three years. The laborers on the project were all local people who had no prior experience in this type of construction. Despite this, the anomalous amateur-built church, with its mismatched towers and Moorish domed bell tower, has withstood the test of time. It has been designated a national monument by the Malawian Department of Antiquities and is a symbol of and source of pride for the city of Blantyre.
----------------------------------------
Title: Karonga Museum
Description: A cultural center on the shores of Lake Malawi dedicated to preserving Karonga’s past and present, including the fossilized remains of the Malawisaurus.
Content: It’s an eight-hour drive from Malawi’s capital city Lilongwe to Karonga, a district seated on the northwest banks of Lake Malawi. Karonga encompasses a rift valley, a low-lying region where the earth’s crust pulls apart. Rifting unearths ancient sediment and rock strata, making the discovery of fossils easier, and helping to piece together Earth’s long history. In Karonga, that history includes the discovery of the geological formation known as the Dinosaur Beds, where numerous fossils dating back millions of years have been discovered in the last century. The early ancestors of mammals from the Triassic period and Jurassic-Cretaceous-era dinosaurs thrived in this region, leading to some awe-inspiring discoveries.
In 1928, South African paleontologist Sidney H. Haughton unearthed the first complete fossilized remains of the Malawisaurus, a Cretaceous-period dinosaur that lived around 125 million years ago. Remains that appear to be the same dinosaur have also been found in Brazil, supporting the theory that these dinosaurs were living when the continents now known as South America and Africa were splitting apart. In the following decades, prehistoric remains continued to emerge from Karonga’s rift valley, drawing researchers and paleontologists from around the world.
In 1983, two scientists established the Hominid Corridor Research project, which focused on the study of early human environments and hominid remains. These early ancestors are dated between one million and eight million years old, establishing Karonga as a contender for the coveted title of “cradle of humankind,” alongside Ethiopia and South Africa.
In 2004, the Cultural & Museum Centre Karonga was officially established as a home for fossils on display, with the Malawisaurus as its pièce de résistance, and as a research facility for the Hominid Corridor project and other excavations. A cultural center and camp for schools and seminars opened 10 years later, with a display of ancient human artifacts, archeological records, and colorful murals depicting the evolution of our early ancestors. An exhibition titled “Dinosaurs to Democracy” includes the history of the slave trade, life under colonial rule, and the modern traditions of the Karonga community.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Stone House Museum
Description: A history of European missionaries in Malawi.
Content: High up on an escarpment overlooking Lake Malawi sits the small town of Livingstonia, established by missionaries from the Free Church of Scotland in 1894. In the middle of the town is the Stone House Museum. Located in the former home of Dr. Robert Laws, who served as head of the Livingstonia Mission for more than 50 years, the museum tells of those first missionaries and of the arrival of Europeans in Malawi, then known as Nyasaland.
Perhaps more interesting, however, than the contents of the museum, is the story behind a collection of white rocks lying in the overgrown grass beside the building. In February 1959, during Malawi’s struggle for independence from Britain, violence had broken out in the district of Rumphi, where Livingstonia is located. Concerned for the safety of the Europeans living in Livingstonia, the federal government made contact by dropping two unloaded gas canisters from a plane into the town. The canisters contained a message, telling the missionaries a boat would be ready to evacuate them from the nearby town of Chitimba if they felt they were in danger. The message advised that another plane would return the following day to receive an answer. The missionaries should respond by laying stones on the lawn outside Dr. Laws’ house in the shape of Roman numerals: an “I” if they felt safe and a “V” if they wished to leave.
The missionaries held a meeting that afternoon during which they decided not only to stay, but also to send a clear message of peace, unity, and harmony during a time of extreme racial tension. When the plane flew over Livingstonia the following day, a collection of whitewashed stones had been laid on the lawn, spelling out “Ephesians 2 v 14”
A photograph of the message taken from the plane appeared on the front cover of the Rhodesian Herald the following day and in the Manchester Guardian a few days later.
Ephesians 2 v 14: “for He is our prince who has made us both one, and has broken down the middle wall of partition between us.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Seven Coloured Earths
Description: This small group of sand dunes manages to pack in a strange rainbow of colors.
Content: Known as Terres des Sept Couleurs in French, the Seven Colored Earths in Mauritius is a rare geological oddity that proves brown is far from the only color of dirt. 
Surrounded by forest and spreading out in seven distinct colors (red, brown, violet, green, blue, purple, and yellow), these psychedelic dunes were formed thanks to a rare confluence of volcanic activity which brought a number of different elements together, each with their own distinct hue. The rolling bands of color are caused by a strange phenomenon in which the different sand particles seem to miraculously settle together, creating patches of red iron or blue aluminum.
Another odd feature of the dunes is that they do not seem to erode, despite Mauritius’ heavy and frequent rains. The natural beauty of the site has attracted a healthy tourist trade and a wooden fence was erected to protect the sands, but nothing can protect visitors’ eyes from the striking colors on display.
----------------------------------------
Title: Le Pouce (The Thumb)
Description: The “Thumb” of Mauritius provides a 360 degree view of the entire country.
Content: From the top of Le Pouce one can see almost the entire circumference of Mauritius.
The hike up takes barely an hour and a half, beginning in a field of sugarcane and ending atop a grassy summit just big enough for a picnic blanket. The peak, which resembles a thumb (hence its name) is part of the Moka Range and is 812 meters in elevation. Standing at the top and looking out over Port Louis, the country’s capital, one can spy the famous Champs de Mars Racecourse and vessels going in and out of the harbor.
Spin 360 degrees and Snake Island and Flat Island will float into view a little ways to the north, then Pieter Both will emerge to the east (a peak which looks like a little cloaked head, named after a Dutchman), then more mountains wrapping around the south, and endless ocean all around. A volcanic eruption millions of years ago left behind the island’s jagged assortment of peaks. Charles Darwin also once stood atop the Thumb—the scientist-explorer made his own visit here in 1836. Path signage hasn’t improved much since then, but it would be very difficult to get lost. There’s also a trail that continues from the town of Moka along the edge of the thumb and ends up on the outskirts of Port Louis, if one is seeking out some dim sum or Burger King.
Located 1,200 miles off the southeastern coast of Africa, Mauritius is a mere 30 miles long and 29 miles wide; you can drive anywhere within about a half-hour. The island is named after a Dutchman, the people all speak French and a French Creole, and the school and government systems are British. Mauritius calls itself both a “paradise island” and “rainbow nation”; it is home to people of Asian, European, and African decent, the majority of its population being Indo-Mauritians. The country became independent from Britain in 1968.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Last Bois Dentelle Trees
Description: Only two of these trees remain in the natural world, found high in the cloud forest of a Mauritius island.
Content: With the scientific name Elaeocarpus bojeri, this beautiful flowering tree is known for its sprays of long, white, bell-shaped flowers. It is from the delicate patterns of the flowers that the tree gets its common name: bois dentelle or “Lace Wood.”
The bois dentelle trees are found in very few places, one of which is located high in the cloud forest of the island of Mauritius, on a hill called the Piton Grand Bassin. For man years, that was the only place they were found, because only two of them were known to remain in nature.
The tree has come so close to extinction, not because it is commercially viable, but because it isn’t. Its environment is being overrun by more commercially attractive alien species such as Guava and a small evergreen shrub Litsea monopetala. The last two of these trees would also have disappeared forever, taking with them the secrets locked in their genetics, if it hadn’t been for intervention. 
Since the Ministry of Agriculture and the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation stepped in they have been able to save the two remaining trees, and successfully made two offspring in a tree nursery from the seeds of these trees. In December 2018, it was reported the forestry department found a few more natural-growing trees in the mountains in the north. 
Despite these promising updates, the tree remains critically endangered, according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature.
----------------------------------------
Title: Champ de Mars
Description: Dating back to 1812, this is the oldest racecourse in the Southern Hemisphere.
Content: Founded in 1812, the Champ de Mars Racecourse is the oldest racecourse in the Southern Hemisphere and the second-oldest in the world. Located in Mauritius’ capital of Port Louis, the track held its first races in June 1812, the same year that British forces took over the island from the French. When the country finally declared its independence 156 years later, it was right here at the racecourse.
The Champs de Mars Racecourse was created under the auspices of the Mauritius Turf Club, founded by Britain’s Colonel Draper. Before 1810, the area was a military training ground for French troops. The course has a circumference of 1,298 meters (4,258 feet), and viewers can spectate from stadium seating as well as private lodges. Inside the course, you’ll find a statue of King Edward VII by sculptor Prosper d’Épinay as well as an obelisk known as the Malartic Tomb, which pays tribute to a French governor.
Today, the races meet a high international standard, and racing is one of the country’s most popular sports. Mauritius’ big horse races include the Duchess of York Cup, Barbé Cup, Maiden Cup, and the Duke of York Cup. The horses and jockeys come mostly from South Africa and Australia, and the racing season extends from April to November, with races held on weekends. The manager and owner are known to be very friendly and welcoming to visitors, and might just show you around if you run into them.
You can stroll up to Champ de Mars from the harbor, nestled in a valley surrounded by the country’s jagged volcanic mountains, all while enjoying the soft Indian Ocean breeze. Afterward, you can head back downtown, past the mosques and Chinatown, the British statues and French-language schools, for any of the country’s many cuisines.
----------------------------------------
Title: Slave Route Monument
Description: This monument sits at the foot of a mountain where, according to legend, enslaved people jumped to their deaths.
Content: The massive cliff at Le Morne Brabant mountain on the island of Mauritius is shrouded in dark tales. 
Mauritius was once a part of the complex and far-reaching international slave trade, and people say that hundreds of slaves threw themselves off the cliff rather than face the horrors of dehumanization. 
There’s another, even darker tale: Some say that after the British passed the Slavery Abolition Act in 1834, a group of soldiers and police went to the Le Morne area to let runaway slaves know that they were finally free. But the slaves, seeing the authorities approaching, feared that they were being recaptured and returned to their masters, and climbed to the top of the mountain summit and threw themselves off committing suicide by landing in the ocean. 
The Slave Route Monument is located at the foot of Le Morne mountain, in clear view of the caves in the cliff faces where it is rumored that runaway slaves were apparently known to hide, and the sheer drop from the mountain into what’s since been called the “Valley of Bones.” If you’re aware of the legends behind your surroundings, even a short visit to the monument will be a moving and thought-provoking one. (It should be noted that there is yet to be any archaeological evidence of the tragedy like bones found on the beach.)
Across from one of the country’s pristine public beaches, the site is in a quiet garden enclosure at the foot of Le Morne mountain. You will find a central sculpture surrounded by various other sculptures and engravings, meant to symbolize the different origin and destination countries of the slaves brought into or sent from Mauritius, which include Mozambique, Madagascar, India, China, Malaysia, Haïti, Réunion island, France and Senegal..
In 2009, Mauritius established the Slave Route Monument as a symbol to recognize and commemorate the impact and influence of slavery and the slave trade on Mauritian history. It was part of a larger UNESCO effort officially launched in Benin in 1994 known as the Slave Route Project, looking to have such monuments erected in countries affected by the slave trade. The project was formally launched in Mauritius in 2005 with the establishment of a Slave Route National Committee under the Ministry of Arts and Culture.
In the century between the 1720s and 1820s, over 200,000 slaves—many of whom were illegally introduced after the British outlawed the slave trade in 1807—arrived in Mauritius and Reunion Island from East African and Malagasy ports, according to American slave historian Pier Larson. Many died aboard slave ships en route to their destinations, and ultimately, the slave trade in Mauritius is inextricably linked with the deaths of hundreds of thousands of slaves. The history of the slave in Mauritius is commemorated annually on August 23rd, UNESCO’s International Day for the Remembrance of the Slave Trade, in the hopes of generating greater awareness of this part of the country’s past. It is rather pertinent to highlight that this factual truth (related to slavery on the island) pertains generally to the greater island region of Mauritius and not necessarily to the concentrated focus that the myth and legend places on the mountain of Le Morne Brabant itself given the lack of circumstantial evidence.
----------------------------------------
Title: Macuti Lighthouse and Shipwreck
Description: This rusted shipwreck directly in front of a century-old abandoned lighthouse looks almost surreal.
Content: If you find yourself in Beira, Mozambique, it’s well worth a visit to Macuti Beach to witness this unusual scene: the remains of an old shipwreck lying on the sand directly in front of a mysterious abandoned lighthouse. 
At high tide, only a few rusted bulkheads are visible above the breakers, but at low tide, you can walk or wade right through the wreckage. In the light of early morning or late afternoon, the place has an almost surreal, brooding vibe.
The red-and-white-striped Macuti Lighthouse (the beach is named after it) has stood here since 1904, but has been derelict for almost the last 20 years. In 1985, a seagoing tug, also christened “Macuti,” was intentionally run aground directly in front of the old lighthouse to serve as a breakwater. It seems like an ironic and inglorious end for a vessel that was once important enough to be featured on a Mozambican postage stamp.
During the day, especially on weekends, the lighthouse and beach are a popular local hangout. Prepare for scores of locals enjoying the sun. Get a drink from one of the many bars nearby and sip as you sit at the foot of the lighthouse looking out at what’s left of the Macuti. Visit at after dark on a clear night, at low tide (about 11 p.m.), for the most enchanting views.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Lion House
Description: When humans abandoned this safari lodge, the lions took over.
Content: The Gorongosa region, located in Great African Rift Valley in central Mozambique, is one of the most biodiverse places on the planet, and it has made efforts to preserve its unique ecosystems since the 1920s. By 1940 the wildlife reserve was such a popular attraction a safari lodge was built to accommodate tourists. Unfortunately, it was built right on a floodplain.
Every year during the rainy season, the Mussicadzi River would flood the building, and the lodge was abandoned before it was even fully completed. But one man’s trash is another man’s treasure — or in this case, a pride of large wild cats. When humans abandoned the lodge, the lions moved in.
The empty structure was named the Lion House (or “Casa dos Leões” as Portuguese is the official language of Mozambique) and lions have occupied it ever since. In 1960, Gorongosa became a national park, and today the magnificent animals and their unexpected residence in the deserted building are a famous landmark at Gorongosa National Park.
For generations lions have been coming back to the house, even guarding it like their own territory, a curious behavior for a wild animal. Some of the lions — the park estimates there are 30 to 50 living on the reserve — use it as a safe haven for their cubs and a place to take shelter from the rain. The animals are known to ascend to the roof of the building for a better vantage point from which to watch their prey for hours, carefully choosing the best warthog or bushbuck to target for their next meal. And of course they use the house to do what cats do best: lie around and nap. Being at the top of the food chain has its advantages.
----------------------------------------
Title: Maputo Natural History Museum
Description: From neon green watering holes to bleached elephant foetuses, this Mozambique museum makes natural history weird.
Content: Maputo, Mozambique’s Natural History Museum is housed inside a beautiful old building with nicely kept gardens. The collection includes many artifacts you would expect to find in a natural history museum, including descriptions of animal migration, ancient pottery, and a small ethnology exhibit, but it is also home to elephant foetuses and dioramas full of neon water.
While the building housing the museum features a number of exhibits, but the largest amount of space is given to its aging taxidermy centerpiece. A majority of the ground floor is a crowded arrangement of preserved animals native to this part of Africa. The animals appear to be in various states of disrepair and include what museum guides claim is a pair of paper maché rhinos, created to replace the real rhinos, which had been stolen from the museum.
Some of the trophy creatures are posed in deadly battle, while the majority of the menagerie are gathered around a strip of neon green watering holes. The unnatural color seems a bit strange, but is not unheard of in the natural world. Spared from both the watering hole and the battles, is a well-preserved honey badger, digging a hole in its own glass case.
Not far from the taxidermy menagerie on the ground floor is also an eerie display of elephant fetuses behind glass. The half-formed giants are presented in a gradually more mature state of development. Although at no point are the foetuses anything less than a bit unsettling.
----------------------------------------
Title: Grande Hotel of Beira
Description: Once living up to its name as the grandest hotel in all of Africa, the Grande Hotel is now home to a community of squatters.
Content: In what was once an Olympic-sized pool, women wash their laundry in the questionable water, murky and still, as children chase each other around its length.
Inside the four-story Art Deco structure, families cram themselves into every available room and corridor, fighting off rats, centipedes, and sometimes each other. Trash spills from every available space, the smell of urine and sweat hangs in the air, and light switches and faucets produce nothing. 2,000-3,000 people live here together, doing their best to keep it as safe and clean as possible, but the challenges of open elevator shafts, desperation and overcrowding are daunting.
Welcome to the Grande Hotel of Beira, a luxurious getaway for the colonial elite, once thought to be the most splendid hotel on the continent of Africa.
Built in the 1950s during Portuguese rule, the Grande Hotel was a vision of opulence. Parquet floors gleamed, chandeliers lit up the art on the walls and ornate décor. Elevators delivered guests to their lavish rooms with balconies looking out at a stunning view of the Indian Ocean, and across the decadent pool area.
When the Liberation front of Mozambique rose up and civil war began to sweep across the country, the owners of the Grande Hotel fled, abandoning the property. It was used a refugee camp as the war raged on, but once it ended, the battered building was taken over by homeless citizens made destitute by the decades of unrest.
The once magnificent building, while still grand in stature, has made the complete journey from playground to slum. The parquet floors were ripped out long ago and burned for heat, everything that could be sold, burned or used has been stripped out of every inch of the property. The elevator shafts are empty, floors collapse, and trees grow up through balconies and terraces. Political posters hang tattered against graffiti-filled walls, smiling and promising something better.
The slum has a loose organizational structure, a mediator that helps work out disputes, a cleaning schedule that residents must adhere to, and two rules which everyone must try to follow to the best of their abilities: “Keep the Cleanliness and the Respect.” While somewhat dangerous, the hotel can be visited; residents sell produce and fish in the courtyard, and the government promotes classes for the children that live there. Talk of tearing it down or kicking the squatters out is met with resistance, especially when no alternative living space is being offered. Ironically, a room at the Grande Hotel of Beira is in higher demand than it ever was when it was in operation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Congo Nile Trail
Description: A hiking/biking/exploring trail that winds across over 140 miles of Rwandan shoreline.
Content: The Congo Nile Trail runs on the western edge of Rwanda through small villages and large cities. The trail is well-marked and easy to navigate. Along the way you’ll pass through banana and coffee plants, meet locals selling snacks and drinks to keep you pedaling, and children who want to practice some English as you ride by.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kuruhimbi Milk Bar
Description: One of the capital's last independent milk bars remains a crucial community watering hole.
Content: Kuruhimbi is one of Kigali’s most popular bars, and it doesn’t serve a drop of liquor. Instead, milk is on tap. Located in the city’s Kimisagara neighborhood, on a dirt road just a few minutes away from a bustling market, Kuruhimbi is a milk bar and Rwandan stalwart. Despite its popularity, Kuruhimbi is one of the last of its kind: With the growth of Inyange Milk Zone, a corporate milk bar chain, local milk bars are becoming relics of the country’s past.
Kuruhimbi may not be the easiest place to find—it’s not listed on Google maps, and there’s no website or official phone number—but the colorful sign above the entrance, crisp white interiors, and patterned red-and-yellow plastic tablecloths are nothing if not welcoming.
Once you’re inside, the menu is fairly self-explanatory. Poured from a vast metal drum in the corner of the shop, frothy cups of milk are served hot or cold alongside snacks such as chapati, samosas, and hard-boiled eggs. Ikivuguto, a thick fermented milk similar to probiotic yogurt, is one of Kuruhimbi’s specialties, and locals swear the bar brews the best in the city. Condiments—honey, sugar, and cocoa powder—are readily available.
The bar seats no more than 10 at a time, but customers pop in and out quickly, just long enough to throw back a half liter of milk or fill up a large jerry can for takeaway. Kuruhimbi is one of the community watering holes, and many nearby residents spend late mornings and afternoons chatting in the shop. The owners often buzz around as well, restocking snacks behind the counter or filling up glasses. They have lived in the neighborhood for decades, and they source Kuruhimbi’s milk from farms just outside of Kigali’s city limits.
Although Kuruhimbi is one of many similar operations scattered throughout the area, milk bars are unique to Rwanda. Cows are intrinsic to Rwandan culture and heritage, and the advent of milk bars came with the advent of the modern Rwandan city, rendering Kigali the country’s de facto milk bar capital. When citizens left their rural homes and cows behind for urban life, the milk bar was born as a way to keep Rwandans connected to their dairy. Cows often signify prosperity and are involved in many of Rwanda’s rituals, including traditional marriage ceremonies.
The independent Kigali milk bar, once ubiquitous, is slowly being replaced by dozens of Inyange Milk Zones, a sterile, government-owned chain replica. Though colorful signs still dot the city, replete with images of cows and the words Amata Meza (“fresh milk”), Kuruhimbi is one of just a few operational neighborhood milk bars still standing.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dian Fossey's Grave
Description: Burial site of the world's most widely known researcher on the endangered mountain gorilla.
Content: Found murdered in the bedroom of her cabin in the Virunga Mountains of Rwanda in 1985, Dian Fossey was - and remains - the most widely-known researcher on the endangered mountain gorilla, of which only about 250 are believed to still live in the wild.
The last entry in Fossey’s diary, which was found in her cabin, read: “When you realize the value of all life, you dwell less on what is past and concentrate on the preservation of the future.”
Fossey’s skull had been split open with a machete, a tool used by poachers in the area to hunt and kill the gorilla for resale. It is assumed that the poachers of the area, which Fossey had fought hard for nearly a decade, had her killed to make their lives easier. Thousands of dollars in cash, checks, and other valuables were found untouched in the cabin.
Today, Fossey is buried next to her dead gorilla friends, many of which had been killed by the very poachers that likely hunted her. After her death, memorial services were held in Washington D.C., New York, and California. The cabins in which she and her staff lived do not exist anymore except for a few bare foundations, overgrown with weeds.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nyamunini Island
Description: This breathtaking island on Rwanda’s Lake Kivu is a haven for thousands of fruit bats.
Content: Known jokingly as “Napoleon’s hat” for the similarities between its shape and Bonaparte’s unique headgear, Nyamunini Island has become a destination for Rwandese and foreigners alike. Hidden near the eastern shores of Lake Kivu on Rwanda’s shared border with Congo, Nyamunini is home to thousands of fruit bats. As many as 50,000 straw-colored fruit bats of the Eidolon helvum species have their home on the island, the largest colony of this kind in Rwanda.
According to a biodiversity survey by the Rwanda Environment Management Authority, Nyamunini is the most biodiverse of the seven small islands found on Lake Kivu. This may be due in part to a dark past; the haven was set ablaze during the horrific 1994 genocide to kill dozens of fleeing Tutsis, and the subsequent lack of human settlements provided unencroached environmental conditions for plants and animals.
For about $10, you can take a guided tour of Nyamunini and hike winding upward paths under a canopy of bats. When they fly as a group, the bats fill the sky in a truly spectacular vision that includes quite a bit of screeching. Staying on the paths mitigates the possibility of physical contact with bats, so visitors are not permitted to stray off the trail. The Rwanda Wildlife Conservation Association conducts monthly visits to Nyamunini to monitor the bats, and has recommended ecotourism guidelines for tours. The hike takes about 30 minutes depending on speed and stamina, and the island peak offers a striking panorama of Lake Kivu.
Nyamunini is located in the Karongi district, also known as Kibuye, an area famed for its beauty and relaxation. For passport-toting visitors, the Democratic Republic of the Congo is a short boat ride away, but tourists are recommended to cross the nearby land border instead.
To reach Nyamunini, tourists can elect to rent a kayak or enter a small motorboat that can ferry them between the island and the mainland for between $15 and $30 (negotiations are up to you). Often, visitors will witness groups of cows swimming between Kivu’s islands, and can visit the neighboring islands to discover other wildlife and beautiful vistas.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kakira Imigongo Cooperative
Description: A small Rwandan workshop where you'll find traditional works of art—made from cow dung.
Content: In Rwanda, cattle are an important status symbol, and if you venture into the rural areas of the country you’re almost guaranteed to cross paths with these gloriously long-horned denizens. You may even find yourself scraping their dung off your shoes. Or if you’re lucky, hanging it on your living room wall.
For generations, cow dung has been to create a striking and truly unique art form found only in Rwanda, called imigongo. Despite the rather unconventional medium, the characteristic colorful geometric patterns of traditional imigongo paintings would fit right in with most modern decor. 
Legend has it that in the 18th century, Prince Kakira was the first to use the ordure of these revered animals to decorate the interior walls of his house, mixed with ash and clay for color. The new art form took the name of the prince’s domain, Gisaka-Imigongo.
Today’s imigongo artwork has mostly migrated off walls, and is generally painted on portable wooden panels, plates, or wall hangings, which are popular with tourists. The vibrant paintings are composed of vibrant colors sourced from natural materials—mustard yellow, rusty red from the natural soil, white from kaolin or white clay, and black from the ashes of banana peels. 
This indigenous craft almost died out in the 1990s during the tragic Rwandan Genocide. But thankfully, there are a few cooperatives today in the Eastern Province keeping the art form alive, and indeed, thriving. The artists are mainly women, many made widows by the genocide
To get to the heart of imigongo production, head to the town of Nyakarambi in the Kirehe district — about three and a half hours southeast of Kigali, the country’s capital, by bus. There are several options for visiting an imigongo workshop near town, the most well-known being the Kakira Imigongo Cooperative, named for the prince who originated the craft.
Here you can watch women making imigongo and even step inside a dizzying hut decorated in traditional imigongo style. Continue down the road between Nyakarambi and Rusumo and you’ll see several other workshops along the way, and the main road through town is lined with charming planters decorated with imigongo art.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Rock of Kamegeri
Description: After suggesting criminals be burned to death on this rock, a king's advisor suffered his own punishment.
Content: There are several different versions of the story, but sources agree that an adviser to an early Rwandan king met a grisly end here, in a very unusual way.
In the late eighteenth or early nineteenth century, a man named Kamegeri suggested to his king that this rock could be used to punish criminals, by heating it with firewood until it was red-hot, then strapping the person to the rock to bake to death. 
The king seemed pleased with the idea, and ordered it to be done. Once the rock was unbearably hot, the king surprised everyone by ordering not the criminal, but Kamegeri himself be burnt on the rock, to rid the kingdom of a man who would suggest such a cruel fate. 
According to one authentic report of the tale, the event took place during the reign of  Mwami (“King”) Yuhi IV Gahindiro, who ruled from 1746 to 1853 and had a reputation for being a fair and nonviolent ruler. Other reports have stated it was King Mibambwe Sekarongoro Mutabazi, who ruled much earlier.
The Rock of Kamegeri, or “Urutare rwa Kamegeri” in the native language, still stands in the Ruhango district, and today tourists can visit the historical site where Kamegeri suffered his own cruel punishment. During your visit be sure to touch the rock, as locals say it is always warm no matter the weather.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nyamirambo Women’s Center
Description: This center in the Rwandan capital supports women’s livelihoods while educating visitors about traditional cooking, craft making, and more.
Content: In 2007, Rwanda’s parliament had the highest female representation in the world at 48.75 percent. But that equal representation wasn’t trickling down to women in Nyamirambo, one of the oldest neighborhoods in the capital city of Kigali. In response to the gender-based violence, discrimination, and gender inequality they were facing, 18 women came together to create the Nyamirambo Women Center (NWC), a community space with a mission of combating these prolific issues. Today, Rwanda retains its place at the top of global female parliamentary representation at 61.25 percent, and the NWC has evolved into a self-sustaining vocational and educational community center that supports more than 50 families.
Women in Rwanda are known as umutima wa murugo, “the heart of the home,” and were essential to rebuilding the country in the aftermath of the Rwandan Civil War. After the horrific 1994 genocide, during which between 800,000 and more than one million people were slaughtered, women were estimated to make up around 70 percent of the population.
The NWC follows that tradition of women-led solutions, evolving from a care center into a small business cooperative with the Umutima (heart) project, founded in 2013. The initiative supports vocational training in craft making and tailoring for women in the community. Clothing, home decor, and accessories are handmade out of kitenge fabric, banana leaves, sisal plant fiber, palm leaves, and more. In 2014, NWC founded a community library with books in Kinyarwanda, English, and French to encourage children’s literacy. The center also holds classes in English, reading, computer literacy, sewing, and weaving for adults. Umutima members can access workshops on mental health, women’s rights, and nutrition.
For tourists, the NWC offers guided walking tours of Nyamirambo led by members of the Umutima cooperative. For $15 (plus an extra $3 for lunch), participants learn about the neighborhood, visit two mosques, tour a hair salon, and learn to pound cassava. Guests can also elect to take lessons in cooking or basket weaving, each for the same price. All profits go right back to running NWC and paying the wages of Umutima cooperative members.
----------------------------------------
Title: Marie Antoinette's
Description: One of the oldest restaurants in the Seychelles.
Content: A rambling wood-and-iron mansion with a steep metal roof stands from the Seychelles’ colonial days. Today it’s home to the oldest restaurant in this Indian Ocean island chain.
Marie Antoinette’s serves up Seychellois “creole” food, a fusion of Asian, African, and French flavors. Curry wafts on the island breeze. Lace tablecloths and bird of paradise flowers frame the open-air dining rooms. 
Marie Antoinette’s best dishes include sweet and sour tuna steak, tangy mango salad, light eggplant fritters, and grilled red snapper in a yellow curry sauce. Pulpy, tart passionfruit juice is an ideal drink.
After your meal, don’t miss turtle-watching in the backyard run. Giant Aldabran tortoises are endemic to the Seychelles, and many locals keep them as pets.
Marie Antoinette’s tortoises are survivors. In 2001, after days of heavy rain caused landslides, a one-ton concrete wall fell on them. They were at first assumed dead, but all 11 survived. Their tough shells protected them, although still-visible indentations show how they were nearly crushed.
If it’s lunchtime, look out for Abraham. At 60 years old, this male tortoise still has a big appetite for the ladies. His favorite mating time, the restaurant says, is noon.
----------------------------------------
Title: Moyenne Island
Description: A newspaper editor turned this abandoned island into a tortoise nature preserve that's now the world's smallest national park.
Content: Many of us fantasize about what we would do with our own island. Brendon Grimshaw turned his fantasy into a wondrous reality—a flora and fauna preserve, primarily housing over 100 land tortoises, the only human inhabitant watching over a paradise of endangered beauty.
Grimshaw, who died in 2012, bought the island for a meager £8,000 in 1962. An adventurer with a love of nature and travel, he had always wanted an island to call his own, and was very attracted to the beautiful spots in Seychelles, window shopping for years throughout the smattering of Indian Ocean islands.
Then, he met Moyenne, with its measly four types of trees so overgrown you couldn’t even walk past the beach and brush so dense coconuts never managed to hit the ground. It was a hard, long road to paradise, but with help from a partner, Rene Antoine Lafortune, and a bevy of misadventures (Tropical storms! Sharks!) Grimshaw developed the wild island into a gorgeous preserve, where he then lived with his Testudine friends.
Moyenne Island, once an unkempt brush pile, is now home to 16,000 plants and trees, mahogany, palm, mango, and pawpaw that he painstakingly transferred to attract the host of native birds that flocked from neighboring islands. Nature paths wind in and out of the plant life, leaving room for visitors to explore, and explore they may, as long as they remember that the tortoises have the right of way.
A reptilian version of a crazy cat lady, Grimshaw transported and bred roughly 120 tortoises onto the island, and they roam freely, many of them likely to have been destroyed on the other islands by development and careless humans. While under Grimshaw’s care, they flourished. Even today, visitors are reminded of whose home they are actually guests in by a sign that reads, “Please Respect the Tortoises. They are probably older than you”
Bringing the island to life was Grimshaw’s greatest accomplishment. His efforts paid off: the island was declared a national park. Grimshaw had been offered as much as $54 million for the property but stubbornly refused, convinced that any buyer would destroy his tortoise paradise and turn it into another big hotel resort. It is now safely regulated as the smallest national park in the world, and also holds the distinction of having more species per square foot than any other national park in existence.
Grimshaw chronicled both his life as an adventuring editor and his transformation of Moyenne in the book Grain of Sand.
----------------------------------------
Title: Aldabra Atoll
Description: Over two-thirds of the world's population of giant tortoises live among this coral formation.
Content: Comparable to the Galapagos Islands in terms of rare biodiversity, the Aldabra Atoll is a bastion for a number of exotic fauna, but mainly giant turtles. 
Aldabra, the second largest coral atoll in the world sits in the Indian Ocean, 265 miles from the nearest landmass, allowing the small island to remain virtually untouched throughout history. This isolation has, in turn, allowed a remarkable variety of species to call the coral formation and its central lagoon home. The most prevalent beast to be found on the island is the giant tortoise, of which there is thought to be a population of at least 100,000. With the global population of giant tortoises numbering only 150,000 in total, that is no small number of terrapins. In addition to the turtles the sunny, arid shores are home to the world’s largest species of crab, the coconut crab, and a rare type of bird known as the Aldabra Rail which is the only flightless variety of its type left in the world.
----------------------------------------
Title: Abandoned Church
Description: In the middle of a busy residential neighborhood, a small roofless church being reclaimed by nature.
Content: Churches of varying sizes can be seen throughout the islands of Seychelles. They are usually well looked after, often with small manicured gardens. It is, therefore, quite surprising to find an abandoned church in the outskirts of Victoria—even more so, considering that this church is nested in a populated area, next to a school, private houses, and a busy roundabout. 
The roots of Christianity in Seychelles can be traced back to 1756, when France claimed the islands. As Seychelles had no Indigenous population, when European settlers arrived aboard the ship Thélemaque in 1770, Captain Leblanc Lecore brought 15 French men, eight enslaved Africans, and five Indians to the island now known as Sainte Anne. After decades of French rule, Seychelles came under British rule in 1810. It was not until  1976 that Seychelles became an independent country.
Christianity remains the most widespread religion in Seychelles, and Roman Catholicism represents the predominant form. Located in Roche Caïman on the island of Mahé, this structure is completely roofless and exposed to the elements. The vegetation is cut back from time to time, but it is clearly visible that medium-size tree trunks have grown through the windows. The vegetation has almost completely reclaimed the walls demarcating the apse and the three lancets. Some moss covers the ground, and weeds creep in between the cracks, but the slabs of rock used to tile the floor are still recognizable.
There are neither fences nor custodians on site. The building is open to whoever happens to be passing by.
----------------------------------------
Title: Vallee de Mai Nature Preserve
Description: A British general, a suggestive tree, a map of paradise.
Content: With its pristine beaches, crystal blue seas, and abundant natural beauty, it’s easy to see why people generally consider this collection of islands to be close to paradise on earth.
But when British General Charles “Chinese” Gordon declared the island of Praslin in the Seychelles to be the Garden of Eden in 1881, he meant it much more literally.
Gordon drew maps showing how the Seychelles, in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia, could be said to conform to the geography of the Garden of Eden, as described in the Bible. Even more specifically, Gordon found a species of tree specific to the islands, which he believed to be the actual Tree of Knowledge: the now-endangered coco de mer, said to look like the tempting female form. It’s also the largest seed on the planet.
Gordon, who was called “Chinese” for his achievements putting down the 1860s Taiping Rebellion, was a renowned British general and eccentric Christian evangelist. After he was killed in the battle of Khartoum, his brother published a biography of him which included his Garden of Eden theory. More recently, the island was in the news as the honeymoon location of Prince William and Kate Middleton.
If you visit the island, be sure to check out Vallee de Mai nature preserve to see some of the few remaining coco de mer trees.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mission Ruins of Venn's Town
Description: The remains of a 19th-century school and living quarters are perched atop a mountain surrounded by a thick tropical forest.
Content: Deep in the Morne Seychellois National Park, perched on a mountaintop are the ruins of a mission named after Henry Venn, an Anglican missionary. 
Venn’s Town was a mission set up in 1876, and it consisted of a boarding school, dormitories, a laundry building, kitchens, washrooms, and dwellings for laborers, teachers, and the school principal. In order to sustain its operations, the mission cultivated vanilla, coffee, and cocoa among other produce over a large swath of land (approximately 50 acres).
In the late 1800s, Seychelles became a haven for liberated enslaved people. Although the Emancipation Act abolished slavery in the British-controlled Seychelles in 1835, slave-trading in the area persisted. To curb the practice, the Royal Navy patrolled the East African Coast, intercepted slave-trading ships, and brought those they rescued to Seychelles. There, the adults ended up working in the local plantations as low-paid laborers. Meanwhile, Venn’s Town mission took in their children and provided them with some basic education between 1876 and 1889. This was a crucial point in the history of Seychelles, as these families and their descendants would forever change the Creole Seychellois identity that survives to this day. 
Today, the foundations and walls of five buildings remain over an area of 540 square meters (5,800 square feet). “The Laundry” stands out from the other buildings due to the clear-cut knee-high walls outlining 19 tiny chambers with evidence of rudimentary plumbing.  Thick vegetation from the forest covering the steep slopes of the mountain encroaches on the ruins, and a modern viewpoint platform offers sweeping views of the forest sloping down toward the coastal areas. None other than Queen Elizabeth II drank tea on this very same platform in 1972. 
Many types of plants and animals can only be found here, as well, ranging from the very small Sooglosus frog species to the Seychelles scops owl (Otus insularis).
----------------------------------------
Title: Isle of Farquhar
Description: A schooner, nicknamed "The Unsinkable," with a long history of survival in the Indian Ocean.
Content: Isle of Farquhar, not to be confused with the Farquhar Group, which is a group of islands, is a three-mast schooner moored at Les Mamelles on Mahé, the largest of the islands in Seychelles.
Built in 1909 in the Netherlands and originally named Zeemeeuw, this schooner changed owners, routes, and purpose several times before Captain Robertson Durup brought it to Seychelles, where it was used to carry labor, supplies, and produce from island to island. From its base there, Isle of Farquhar sailed all over the Indian Ocean, mooring at the Chagos Archipelago and Mauritius.
Throughout its life, Isle of Farquhar faced rough seas and weather, and prevailed so much as that it was nicknamed “The Unsinkable.” This was due to particularly sturdy design and steelwork but it was a cyclone that eventually got the best of it.  Yet, true to its moniker, the vessel didn’t sink.  The strong winds broke the masts, but Isle of Farquhar withstood the shock.
To these days, the broken masts rest along the hull.  Much of the steelwork is now rusting, and invading vegetation has made it an integral part of the inlet’s habitat.  There are plans to restore Isle of Farquhar in the near future.
----------------------------------------
Title: Victoria Clock Tower
Description: This vestige of Seychelles’s colonial past now resides in a busy intersection and didn’t chime for its first 96 years.
Content: This intricate clock tower was constructed from nine different pieces, two of which were lost in transit, in 1903 to honor the memory of Queen Victoria. It’s a replica of a London clock tower located at Victoria Station and Vauxhall Bridge Road.  
The Victoria Clock Tower is also referred to locally as “Lorloz.” Originally painted black, the clock tower was re-colored silver in 1935 to commemorate King George V’s Jubilee. In 1999, the spring mechanism was replaced with an electronic one and the clock rang its first chime.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kot Man-ya Exotic Flower Garden
Description: You can find more than 200 species of tropical plants at this garden owned by a former ambassador.
Content: Am abundance of exotic flowers from all over the world is concentrated in one small location, which is immaculately kept. The garden offers a serene, colorful, and peaceful environment with plants. The nursery and garden are located in the hills of lower Les Cannelles and was opened in 2008 by Marc Marengo, Seychelles’s former ambassador to the United Nations.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Milky Seas
Description: The world's largest bioluminescent area was undiscovered by science until 2005.
Content: The world’s largest bioluminescent area, a patch of ocean roughly the size of Connecticut, went undiscovered by science until 2005. Known as the “milky sea,” it has long been a subject of folklore within the sailing world. It even showed up in Jules Verne’s 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea:
“It is called a milk sea” I explained. “A Large extent of white wavelets often to be seen on the coasts of Ambouna, and in these parts of the sea… the whiteness which surprises you is caused by the presence of myriads of infusoria, a sort of luminous little worm.”
Despite these tales of a great glowing ocean, the scientific community largely ignored them, as it was thought that the concentration of bacteria necessary to create such a massive glowing area was impossible. Then a scientist named Steve Miller decided to double-check.
Searching the internet for recorded accounts of the phenomenon he came across the logs of the S.S. Lima which recorded crossing the milky seas in 1995. While it was presumed that no area would be large enough, or have a sustained enough glow to be captured by satellite imagery, Miller, with the help of Steve Haddock, acquired archival data from the U.S. Defense Meteorological Satellite Program for the night that the Lima recorded the phenomenon. When they overlaid it with the coordinates recorded by the S.S. Lima, they suddenly saw it shining up at them: A huge bright area off the horn of Africa.
Believed to be caused by the bioluminescent bacteria Vibrio harveyi, the glowing area measures over 15,400 square kilometers and was seen by satellite glowing for three nights in late January. It remains unclear how such a large congregation of bacteria can exist.
----------------------------------------
Title: Laas Geel
Description: This cave located in the badlands of Somaliland contains some of the oldest cave art in Africa.
Content: The Laas Geel caves and their marvelous contents have been known to locals for many years. However, they remained relatively unknown to the rest of the world until 2002. That year, a team of French archaeologists conducted a survey and documented the various cave paintings across the site.
They discovered that the amazingly well-preserved paintings displayed both humans and animals; mostly dogs, cows, giraffes, antelopes, monkeys and possibly hyenas. Some of the researchers belonging to the team believed the cows represented divinity, as many of the paintings displayed them wearing robes. Several scenes also depict what appears to be humans worshipping cow-like figures and a woman caring for a dog. There have been difficulties in dating the paintings, but they are believed to be between 5,000 to 11,000 years old.
Laas Geel is located within the self-declared Republic of Somaliland, just a few kilometers from the Hargeisa-Berbera road. Sadly, due to a lack of international recognition of the Republic, Laas Geel does not benefit from international funding or protection. The cave and dozens of other archaeological sites across Somaliland are vulnerable to looting and degradation from a lack of preservation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hargeisa War Memorial
Description: A MiG-17 fighter jet sits atop this memorial to the indiscriminate bombardment of Hargeisa.
Content: The Hargeisa War Memorial is an eye-catching monument in the center of Hargeisa, the capital and largest city of Somaliland. Not only is the monument’s dais covered in colorful—and on closer inspection, quite brutal—murals, on its top sits a downed MiG-17 fighter jet.
In the late 1980s, Somaliland began a concerted attempt to break away from Somalia and the brutal dictatorial rule of Somali president Siad Barre. In response, the Somali Air Force began a large-scale aerial bombardment of Hargeisa, a stronghold of the rebel Somali National Movement.
The indiscriminate bombardment destroyed at least 70 percent of the city and, combined with summary executions and ground attacks, resulted in the death of around 50,000 people, mostly civilians. This is now known as the Isaaq Genocide, or Hargeisa Holocaust.
Despite the terrible cost, Somaliland declared itself an independent state in 1991. This was not internationally recognized, but Somaliland experienced relative stability in the years that followed, especially in comparison to the ongoing civil war that continued to engulf Somalia. Today, many countries at least recognize Somaliland as an autonomous region of Somalia.
To mark the brutal bombardment of Hargeisa, and to honor those who lost their lives, a monument was later erected in the city center, on what is now known as Freedom Square. The colorful monument consists of a large dais, on the top of which sits a fighter jet.
This jet, a MiG-17, was one of the Somali Air Force aircraft that took off from Hargeisa airport before turning back around to repeatedly bomb the very same city. It crashed during the bombardment and was later recovered by the rebels.
As you walk closer to the memorial, you’ll see that the colorful murals decorating each side of the dais are in fact very dark in the nature of what they depict. They show scenes of life from the civil war: men with severed arms and legs; human limbs scattered across a battlefield; houses burning as jets fly overhead; and the summary executions of civilians.
But there are also symbols of hope. A woman stands defiant, holding up the flag of the Republic of Somaliland as she looks up at the sky. And on one side of the dais, the image of the scarred and body-strewn battlefield peels away at the corner, to reveal just a glimpse of an alternative image lying behind, one of green lands and blue skies not ravaged by war and destruction.
Update as of April 2022: Currently being modernized and is under construction.
----------------------------------------
Title: Berbera Shipwrecks
Description: A surprising number of shipwrecks visible just off the Somaliland coast.
Content: Located just off the Somaliland coast in and around the port of Berbera, lie hulking shipwrecks and rusting, half-sunken ships. These wrecks are both gathered in clusters near the port, where the harbor is too shallow for the wrecks to sink fully, and can also be found farther out into the Gulf of Aden.
Berbera is the capital of the Sahil region of Somaliland, an unrecognized sovereign state in the Horn of Africa. In ancient times, Berbera was one city in a chain of important commercial ports located along the Somali coast. It has remained an important place for trade into the modern period, and continues to serve as the main commercial harbor for the surrounding region.
The oldest of the Berbera wrecks dates back to the Ethiopian War in the 1970s—specifically the Ogaden War with the Somali invasion—while the most recent comes from 2013 when a ship caught fire in the port and burned out. This means that a number can be seen from shore, while others will require a boat trip out to get close to; a number of restaurants on the waterfront have one that can be hired for this.
----------------------------------------
Title: Topi of Boma National Park
Description: Every October, one of the largest migration of mammals in the world thunders through Boma National Park.
Content: Every fall the plains of South Sudan, normally pale yellow and brown, turn a vibrant viridescent shade. This explosion of greenery helps spur on one of the largest mammal migration in the world. Every October, at least a million antelope thunder across the plains towards the vast lowlands around the White Nile. An estimated 125,000 of the migration’s participants are the spectacularly weird topi.
With an estimated 300,000 spread throughout sub-Saharan Africa, the topi migrating through South Sudan number a little less than half the entire population. These medium-sized antelopes are a deep, burnish brown with black splashes across their foreheads, thighs, and hips. They also sport light tan “socks” allowing their legs to blend into the tall grassy plains they call home.
Topi are an extroverted species that have been known to socialize with animals beyond their own species, like wildebeests, zebras, and even ostriches. They are notoriously picky eaters: the topi only graze on grass and can go without water for long periods, so long as the grass is fresh and well-hydrated. Perhaps weirdest of all, female topis can actually delay birth if they sense they’re in danger.
The Sudd wetland, through which the topi migrate every year, is currently on the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in South Sudan. It’s a move that has brought more attention to the region and its animals as South Sudan’s bloody seven-year civil war came to a close in 2018. However, there are real concerns around the rise in poaching, the unregulated extraction of natural resources, and human encroachment in the Sudd. While the civil war ended in 2018, violence between armed communities has continued in South Sudan over land disputes and post-war grievances straining conservation efforts in the region.
Throughout all the violence though, the topi migration has continued undeterred. Paul Elkan, head of the Wildlife Conservation Society’s South Sudan program, said in an interview, “the country’s wildlife is one of those special features of South Sudan which still arouses some hope.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Sudd Wetland
Description: The inhabitants of the world’s largest wetland have learned to navigate its dramatic seasonal changes.
Content: South Sudan’s Sudd Wetland, also known as Al-Sudd, is one of the world’s largest wetlands, covering more than 35,000 square miles in the north-central part of the country. The White Nile, its many tributaries, and seasonal rainfall sustain the vast wetland. Currently being considered as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Sudd is home to a vast array of flora and fauna, including endangered African elephants, an endangered antelope known as the Nile lechwe, and the critically endangered (and highly photogenic) shoebill. The Sudd is also the site of a huge antelope migration every October, including the spectacularly weird Topi.
Approximately 1 million people live in the Sudd Wetland, many of whom come from Indigenous tribes that have inhabited the area for thousands of years. There are the Nuer and Dinka, two pastoralist peoples that make up the largest ethnic groups in South Sudan. Raising cattle is the primary livelihood for both of these groups, and many social rituals incorporate the animals. Husbands-to-be give cattle to family members of the bride, and Nuer priests often settle feuds through the exchange of cattle. In a centuries-old ritual, Dinka boys transition into manhood when they stop milking cows. 
Another group, the Shilluk, are primarily sedentary farmers. According to tradition, the physical and spiritual well-being of their chosen leader was tied to the overall prosperity of the land. The Anuak people are also farmers and maintain herds of cattle, sheep, and goats. Like many others, they also fish in the wetlands and set up seasonal fishing villages. 
The Neur, Dinka, Shilluk, and Anuak have all adapted to the seasonal changes of the Sudd. The Sudd’s dry season, between December to February, often sees nomadic communities move deeper into the wetland to graze their herds and hunt the Sudd’s plentiful fish. Communities, especially the Dinka, will build seasonal, circular homes on naturally-occurring islands in the wetland during the dry season. During the Sudd’s wet season, between March to August, many move back out of the Sudd to settlements near water deposits in the savanna. 
After gaining independence from Sudan in 2011, South Sudan descended into a violent civil war. During the peak of the fighting, the United Nations estimates that 65,000 to 100,000 people escaped into the Sudd, reported National Geographic. For centuries the Sudd, which literally translates to “barrier,” has been a sanctuary for people fleeing violence, slavery, and oppression. But the recent influx of so many people has meant more competition for resources in the Sudd. Foreign oil companies have also secured contracts to mine the Sudd’s naturally-occurring oil deposits, posing yet another risk to the wetland. Initial oil surveying has already polluted the delicate ecosystem. Many hope that if the Sudd does become a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the international status would protect one of South Sudan’s most precious natural wonders.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Natron
Description: A salty red wasteland in Tanzania is a breeding spot for endangered flamingos.
Content: Don’t let the ring of salty marshes along the edge of Lake Natron fool you. This body of water is one of the most inhospitable areas on Earth.
Colored a deep red from salt-loving organisms and algae, the lake reaches hellish temperatures and is nearly as basic as ammonia. Although most human settlements throughout history have formed around lakes and rivers, the barren landscape around Lake Natron tells a clear story of a place no one ever wanted to live.
Africa’s Great Rift Valley is known for some of its environmentally extreme regions such as the Erta Ale and Dallol. The saline environment of Lake Natron certainly qualifies. Water is supposed to give life, yet this salty world seems content to make life almost impossible… almost.
Although most species cannot handle the 120-degree lake water, cyanobacteria have made Natron their home and turned the lake its trademark reds and oranges. This algae growth has also fostered the developments of Lesser Flamingo nests. Amazingly, 2.5 million flamingos make Lake Natron their home and it is considered one of their only breeding grounds, making preservation of the lake an environmental concern.
In fact, bringing in fresh water would greatly upset the ecological balance of the lake and many in Tanzania have actively fought against bringing in water from the Ewaso Ng’iro River. If the salinity of the lake decreases, the cyanobacteria will also decrease and cause a loss of habitat for the endangered flamingos. Besides losing a bird habitat, the world would also lose a beautiful and salty natural wonder if too much water is diverted south to Natron.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Rock
Description: Sitting atop a rock on Michamvi Pingwe beach, this restaurant becomes its own island at high tide.
Content: Once the site of a fisherman’s post, The Rock restaurant sits perched atop a rock off the eastern coast of Unguja Island in the Zanzibar archipelago. The establishment is on what’s known as a “tidal island”—it rises above the sand on Michamvi Pingwe beach at low tide, but becomes an island at high tide. Depending on the time of day, voyagers arrive on foot or by boat.
After climbing a wooden staircase to reach the entrance, diners enjoy unobstructed views of the Indian Ocean from one of 12 cozy tables beneath a Makuti palm tree roof. Patrons sip cocktails out on the back patio, which—at certain hours—is surrounded by turquoise water on three sides. The restaurant serves both lunch and dinner, so parties can time their meal reservations to match the desired tide level.
The menu, which is largely European-inspired, highlights local seafood and house-made pasta. The Rock’s chefs offer guests a selection of globally-recognizable options, but they also aim to impart the flavors of Zanzibar and the surrounding region in every dish. The fish carpaccio is served with coconut, lime, and chili pepper. Most desserts (which range from chocolate salami to pineapple flambé) come topped with “Zanzibar spices” ice cream. Their beef, spices, and vegetables are all farmed nearby. 
While dining at The Rock is exponentially more expensive than dining elsewhere in Zanzibar, the restaurant, which opened in 2010, sponsors the Kichanga Foundation. Established in 2005, this organization teaches community members how to swim and focuses on a number of sustainability programs, including waste sorting and recycling.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kilwa Kisiwani Ruins
Description: Stunning ruins of what was once the center of one of the greatest empires in East Africa.
Content: Situated off the coast of Tanzania, the island of Kilwa Kisiwani (“isle of the fish”) was once the center of one of the greatest empires in East Africa.
From the 9th century all the way up until the 19th century, Kilwa Kisiwani was a wealthy and powerful port, reaching its peak around the late-Middle Ages. At its height, the empire stretched from Kenya to Mozambique, and Kilwa Kisiwani’s prosperity was crucial to the development of Swahili civilization.
During this time great structures were built that are now stunning ruins, all that’s left of the late empire. One of the most impressive of the ruins is the Great Mosque, the oldest standing mosque on the East African coast, which has 16 domes supported by many arches and pillars. Another amazing site is the Palace of Husuni Kubwa, which overlooks the island from on high and was once the largest building in sub-Saharan Africa.
According to legend, the empire was established on the island by a Persian prince who bought Kilwa Kisiwani from an indigenous king for enough cloth to circle the island. The prince then destroyed a bridge that connected the island to mainland Tanzania.
Kilwa Kisiwani grew rich and powerful because it was well placed on trading routes between Africa, China, India, and Arabia. Gold, porcelain, quartz, ivory, and other valuable treasures all passed through the island. Among the island’s own exports were spices, tortoiseshell, and slaves.  The start of its decline came in the 16th century, when the Portuguese completed their own fort on the island and came to dominate trade in the region.
----------------------------------------
Title: Zanzibar's Night Market
Description: After sunset the heart of Zanzibar's historic Stone Town neighborhood transforms into a culinary playground.
Content: By day, life around Zanzibar’s Forodhani Gardens moves at a leisurely pace: tourists and locals stroll down the seawalk, either sidestepping the eager advances of the city’s ravenous stray cats and taking in the views of an impossibly crystalline Indian Ocean. On the outskirts of Zanzibar’s historical Stone Town, this small park awaits the lucky travelers that manage to navigate their way through the heart of this historical neighborhood’s labyrinth of narrow streets. 
After sunset, this quiet corner of Stone Town is almost unrecognizable. The once calm Seawalk is rapidly filled with chefs, clad in white hats, setting up gas lamps, grills and rotisseries, spreading out their wares across rows of tables. The Night Market is a culinary playground for all—visitors and locals pour in, families gather with small children, and of course, the tenacious stray cats hunker down and wait for scraps. The chefs are a blur of motion, excitedly pointing to their culinary creations, cooing and coaxing until even the most hesitant eater gives in to their expertly spun sales pitches. 
The Night Market perhaps best represents Zanzibar’s wonderful amalgamation of cultures and cuisines. Zanzibar was once a trading center, at the intersection of the spice trade, the slave trade and the ivory trade. Arab, Persian, Indonesian, Malaysian, Indian, and Chinese merchants passed through or migrated to the island, leaving a lasting impact on Swahili culture. The vestiges of Zanzibar’s often tragic history linger in many ways; most noticeably in the unique blend of cultures on the Market’s signature white cardboard plates. Dishes vary widely, from Zanzibari pizza, falafel as big as your face, sugar cane juice, enormous samosas, coconut bread, seafood skewers (although debate persists pertaining to the actual freshness of the market’s pescetarian offerings), and crepes dripping with ribbons of chocolate syrup. 
For the culinary curious and history buffs alike, Stone Town is a magical little corner of Zanzibar, and the Night Market offers a glimpse at an expansive (and appetizing) history and culture—even if it means fighting with a covetous cat over that last morsel of crepe.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Underwater Room at Manta Resort
Description: Stay in your own little bubble.
Content: The Underwater Room appears to float, buoy-like, upon the surface of the crystalline waters off the coast of Tanzania. In reality each corner is tethered to the ocean floor, so have no fear about floating adrift at sea. Guests are anchored in place, but they have submarine views of the ocean life around them.
A little wooden structure, serenely set atop the turquoise ocean waters. Guests can swim (obviously), sunbathe and stargaze on the suite’s deck; pristine views of the Milky Way are visible due to Pemba’s physical isolation. But of course the Underwater Room’s real appeal lies, well, underwater. Beneath the wooden deck is a cozy bedroom containing just one neat little bed, but beyond the windows on all four sides is the blue wonderland of the Indian Ocean. Entire schools of fish eddy past, and curious angelfish may peer in to see what you’re up to.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kuza Cave
Description: This sacred, circular cave is lined with pools so clear and still that it's hard to tell where the water begins.
Content: Remarkably pristine pools, some more than eight feet deep, line the cave’s perimeter. The stillness of the water reflects a backdrop of stalagmites and stalactites, making it difficult to discern where the water ends and the cave wall begins.
Once the eye has adjusted, it’s possible to spot several openings that lead deeper underground. To date, these subterranean portals have yet to be explored.
Kuza Cave is a geological formation with a long, fascinating history. The Jambiani area, where the cave is located, was and still is characterized by countless underground rivers that snake beneath a relatively flat landscape. Some 250,000 years ago, the constant erosion of these underground rivers flowing between two hard layers of limestone caused the upper layer to weaken and buckle. From this collapse, Kuza Cave was born.
The new access to the revealed river created an easily accessible source of fresh water, which attracted animals and humans alike. Bones found strewn about the cave and surrounding area prove that giraffes, zebras, and waterbuck frequented it. And the marks on the bones, inflicted by sharp tools, indicate humans were present, too.
The cave has long been a sacred space for the local people. For thousands of years, they’ve journeyed to this spot within the Earth’s underbelly to hold ceremonies and pray. It’s still a place of religious worship, and is closed to the public when ceremonies are in progress. When the cave is open (which it usually is), it offers a surreal, peaceful glimpse into a wondrous underground world.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ol Doinyo Lengai
Description: This rare volcano spews the strangest and (literally) coolest lava in the world.
Content: Along the East Africa Ridge in Tanzania emerges a volcano known as Ol Doinyo Lengai, translating from Maasai to “Mountain of God.” Such a name would signify a volcano of immense power, but the defining feature of Ol Doinyo Lengai is something else entirely. 
The Tanzanian volcano, sprouting over 10,000 feet tall in the middle of a plain, is the only active volcano on Earth spewing carbonatite lava instead of silica, a rare chemical makeup that yields some bizarre results. The lava that flows from Ol Doinyo Lengai is uniquely cool: At “only” up to 950 degrees Fahrenheit, it is nearly twice as cold as silicate magma.
This relatively cool temperature colors the lava black and grey in daylight, instead of glowing the quintessential red (except sometimes at night). When the lava is hardened, it solidifies as a unique shade of white. And since the magma can cool and harden in seconds once it makes contact with this atmosphere, it sometimes shatters in mid-air and sprinkles down the slopes.
Unlike the silicate magma of most volcanoes, composed mainly of silica and oxygen, the carbonatite lava emitted by Ol Doinyo Lengai contains alkali elements such as calcium, sodium, and potassium (this lava is so sodium rich that it’s a “natrocarbonatite”). Aside from the unique temperature and color this yields, the lava emitted by Ol Doinyo Lengai is also known to be the least viscous and most “runny” in the world. The lava is not just spouted from the main crater either; little peaks on the volcano’s surface called “hornitos” spew the wacky stuff as well.
For all these reasons, the volcano is a favorite among scientists, as it’s easier to study than its dangerously hot counterparts—in fact, it’s sometimes called a “toy volcano.” It’s so relatively safe that reportedly a hiker once fell into the volcano once, and while burned, managed to survive.
----------------------------------------
Title: Selous Game Preserve
Description: The largest game reserve in Africa is home to thousands of species but refuses to house humans.
Content: Watching a lioness devour her fresh kill in the Selous Game Preserve has a tendency to remind visitors in their open air trucks that the nearest village is two days drive in any direction.
Officially established as a protected area in 1896 when Tanzania was still a British colony, the Selous Game Preserve is located in the south of Tanzania, and is comprised of over 21,000 square miles of remote swamps, hills and grasslands. Unlike a lot of the more touristy safari spots on the Serengeti where competing guides jockey for position, the Selous Preserve feels incredibly remote thanks to the provision that prohibits any permanent habitation within the preserve’s boundaries. It’s possible to book a tour on this sprawling grassland and not see another soul the entire time.
The Selous area is home to a staggering number of wildlife species, so much so that the location was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site for its unspoiled beauty. The area has populations of vultures, crocodiles, lions, cape buffalo, hippos, and literally thousands of other species of plants and animals, all virtually undisturbed by human interaction. Hyenas stalk and kill their prey. Elephants lazily graze in the sun. Even rhinos can be found on the grounds, although sightings are rare, a sad testament to that animals’ continuing endangered status.
The park also contains the gravesite of its namesake Frederick Selous, the British explorer and conservationist who was killed battling with German troops in the area during World War I. Selous knew the beauty and tranquility of this remote corner of the country, and thanks to his effort and foresight visitors to the preserve can continue to experience that beauty for themselves.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mercury House
Description: Freddie Mercury's childhood home is now a monument to the iconic Queen rockstar.
Content: While walking around the island of Zanzibar, you’ll come across an unexpected place: a monument to Freddie Mercury, the famous vocalist and songwriter for the rock band Queen.
On a small road in Stone Town, the historic center of Zanzibar, stands what’s dubbed the Mercury House. Mercury spent parts of his childhood within this house. He was born in Zanzibar, as his parents were living there so that his father, Bomi Bulsara, could continue working with the British Colonial Office as a cashier.
Although some dispute the history, many historians believe that as a child, Mercury spent his holidays at this home in Zanzibar and his school years attending class in India. When living in Stone Town, Mercury and his parents would regularly attend the nearby Zoroastrian temple.
Although Mercury returned to Zanzibar at age 18 to live with his parents, he fled to England the next year to escape the 1964 Zanzibar Revolution, which overthrew the Sultan and killed thousands of Arabs and Indians. There, he would form Queen and spend the rest of his years.
The facade of the house features a small monument with pictures of Mercury throughout his childhood and life.
----------------------------------------
Title: Laetoli Footprints
Description: Human ancestor’s 3.6 million year-old footprints.
Content: Roughly 3.6 millions years ago the Sadiman Volcano erupted covering the surrounding ground in ash; rain soon followed making a soft and muddy ground over which prehistoric animals trekked. More ash then erupted from the volcano covering and, in effect, preserving the prehistoric tracks. 
Forward to 1978, when a group of researchers (led by paleoanthropologist Mary Leakey) discovered the preserved tracks, within which were the oldest known footprints of human ancestors. From the prehistoric footprint’s shape, length, and toes it was evident that these hominids were bipedal and were walking upright on two legs, before even the use of stone tools. The prints were left by two or three hominids (one or two adults and a child) and show that these early humans walked in a very similar manner as modern humans.
Today, the actual footprints have been covered up in hopes of protecting them, but due to fear of erosion they are planned to be uncovered again. Whether the prints remain at their discovered location (with a possible museum built over them) or are to be cut-out and moved entirely is currently under debate. 
For now visitors can visit the covered up site of discovery and the nearby Olduvai Gorge Museum, which features casts of the prints and related artifacts.
----------------------------------------
Title: Shifting Sand Dunes
Description: These strange piles of magnetized volcanic ash travel across the desert about 50 feet per year.
Content: Lost in a nondescript part of the savannah, near the Olduvai Gorge on the road to the Serengeti, are two crescent-shaped sand dunes. The sand is remarkably dark, especially in comparison with the soil surrounding the dunes. This is because it is highly magnetized volcanic ash, which explains why the particles tend to falls back on the dunes instead of being blown away by the wind. 
In fact, it is possible to throw a handful of sand in the air and see how it clamps together and re-joins the dunes.  However, when strong winds blow, these sand dunes, also known as barkan, begin to move. Slowly but surely, they travel through the desert, at an average of 55 feet (17 meters) a year. It’s estimated that these shifting sand dunes have been wandering the savannah for 3 million years. 
Although this phenomenon is rare, it is not completely unique, and its origins have been ascertained. If volcanic ash is rich in iron, it can become magnetized, and when it is blown by the winds, it may start collecting around a rock. Given a sufficient amount of time, this little mound can become a dune. 
The local Maasai people believe the shifting sand dunes have come from the nearby sacred mountain Ol Doinyo Lengai, loosely translated as the Mountain of God (where God resides). As a consequence, these dunes are also considered sacred by the Maasai, who convene by the dunes in cases of prolonged draught. On these occasions, a goat is sacrificed to the gods so that rain may come soon. Understandably, climbing the sand dunes is inappropriate.
----------------------------------------
Title: Shop #47 at Mwenge Woodcarvers Market
Description: An exquisite and eclectic selection of African masks stands out within a massive woodcarving marketplace.
Content: Seen from the main road, Mwenge Woodcarvers Market could hardly be more nondescript, but enter through the opening in the center and you’ll find yourself standing in the middle of around 100 stores displaying a wide array of wonderful woodwork.
Most of the woodcarvings in the stores are neatly polished and displayed in orderly fashion. You can find most imaginative reinventions of everyday objects, various ornaments that range in size from miniature figurines to life-size statues of humans and animals. One special feature of this market is that you can actually see the artists working on the sculptures.
Shop #47 stands out at Mwenge Woodcarvers Market for its huge collection of ceremonial masks collected from all over Africa. The shopkeeper can provide information regarding the masks’ countries of origin, approximate age, and use. As the masks come from different regions of Africa, they were carved out of different kinds of wood, which is evident in the rainbow of grains and colors.  
Most masks are colorfully painted—red, black, orange, brown, and white are the most common—and some are adorned with ornamental items including seashells, metal, pottery, horns, teeth, straw, fabric, and hair. The quality and complexity of the mask reflects the importance of the ritual it was used in. In religious rituals, masks can symbolize a specific spiritual being, and as a rule of thumb, the more important the divinity, the more elaborate the mask. 
While some masks resemble an abstract version of a human face, others portray animals’ muzzles with different degrees of anthropomorphism. In the latter case, the mask wearer inhabits the intermediate world between human and animal, and as such he or she can communicate with both.
A legitimate question to ask is whether these masks were produced for the market or for ceremonies. This is a question that not even the most expert in the field can answer with certainty, especially if considering that a woodcarver may well produce a number of masks with comparable quality and artistry, some of which may find their way to the market, while others may be selected for specific rituals.
----------------------------------------
Title: The House of Wonders
Description: In Zanzibar, a historic 19th-century palace is a reminder of the world's shortest war.
Content: In the center of Stone Town, the most historic part of Zanzibar City, is a 19th-century palace that was part of the shortest war in history. 
The House of Wonders was constructed in 1883 by Barghash bin Said, the second Sultan of Zanzibar, as a ceremonial palace. Barghash made the door extra wide so he could enter the house on the back of an elephant, and the building’s large pillars and two-story clock tower were covered in white paint. From the get-go, the house was adorned with electricity and a working elevator, the first in all of East Africa to do so.
The House of Wonders was thriving until 1896 when Khalid bin Barghash seized the throne after his cousin—the ruling Sultan at the time—passed away. This angered British forces in the area, who launched a naval bombardment of Stone Town for just 38 minutes in what’s known as the shortest war in world history.
Although the attack damaged the House of Wonders, the building’s upper floor was still used as the home of the succeeding Sultan (who was sympathetic to the British). The brilliant white palace was used as a government facility for decades until 1990, when it became abandoned and began to crumble.
Fortunately, due to the building’s fantastic history and cultural significance, large efforts were made to preserve it and turn it into a museum. The House of Wonders is now open to the public, allowing visitors to walk through the corridors and rooms of the house and see a 56-foot mtepe ship, bronze cannons from the 1500s, and track from the now-defunct Zanzibar Railroad. 
The museum displays the blend of Portuguese, English, Omani, and Swahili culture that can be found in Zanzibar through its traditional Swahili garments, David Livingstone’s medical chest, and carved wooden doors inscribed with phrases from the Quran. The House of Wonders proves that beyond Zanzibar’s white sand beaches rests a fascinating history and culture.
Update as of January 2021: It appears the building has collapsed.
----------------------------------------
Title: Engaruka Ruins
Description: The culture that built these Tanzanian ruins displayed advanced knowledge of irrigation technology before mysteriously disappearing.
Content: The history of Africa, and the Rift Valley in particular, is not a static one. Throughout history, the movement of different groups of people - hunter-gatherers, pastoralists, agriculturalists - have created one of the most unique and complex landscapes on the planet. The archaeological remains of this part of the world thus remain enigmatic, with few links between the people who created them and those who inhabit the area in the present day. So it is with the Engaruka ruins, which today overlook a dusty arm of the Rift Valley in north-western Tanzania.
The story, as told by the archaeology, is vague. Sometime in the 15th century, locals began experimenting with the small-scale cultivation of indigenous African crops such as millet and sorghum. Over the next three centuries, however, their success in these small-scale endeavors led to a vast expansion in the farming system and a significant increase in population. A huge amount of labour was invested over this time in building furrows to canalize the Engaruka River and redistribute water to the fields, which sprawled at the foot of the Rift escarpment. Large terraces were constructed, repaired, and reconstructed such that over time, they reached a cumulative height of over 3 meters in places. On the slopes overlooking these fields, villages expanded to incorporate a burgeoning population, which at its height may have included over 8000 men, women, and children.
Visiting the site today, its location does nothing to betray its prominent history. What once may have been one of the biggest inland centers in eastern Africa is now a quiet corner of Tanzania, on the edge of the much more popular and touristic Ngorogoro Conservation Area. The road to get here is long and unpaved. You must either catch the bus that runs twice a day from Mto wa Mbu on the shore of Lake Manyara, or else risk life and limb on a one-and-a-half-hour dirt bike (‘Piki-Piki’) ride through the bush. Either way, you are not likely to encounter any of the safari traffic of Ngorogoro, but instead the rush-hour gridlock of dozens of Maasai pastoralists herding their goats in the middle of the road. Once here, the climb up the Rift escarpment to the location of the village can be brutal in the midday 40°C heat. You may wonder, among the other unsolved mysteries of the site, why in God’s name the inhabitants of Engaruka chose to build on a slope like this. Then, looking back over the abandoned field system stretched out below, you may begin to realize what a huge project the building of this site was, and what a significant place it must have been. Tally this with how little is known about the site, and the questions multiply.
For all its “natural” wonders, the human agency that created the landscape of eastern Africa is often overlooked. In fact, much of what is considered ‘natural’ about the east Africa landscape is the product of thousands of years of human interaction with and within the environment. The Serengeti plains, for instance, are a carefully managed anthropogenic landscape that has been shaped through the sustained grazing of pastoralist herds for the past two thousand years. This makes Engaruka even more important as a site: for standing out as a testament to the rich human history of an area of the world whose human history is often forgotten.
Sometime in the 18th century, the villages of Engaruka were abandoned and the fields at the foot of the Rift escarpment ceased to be cultivated. On par with the rest of what is known about the site, the reasons for this sudden desertion are unexplained. Nowadays, locals at the modern village of Engaruka, about four kilometers from the ancient site, have their own theories about who lived here 500 years ago, while archaeologists return again and again with ever more elaborate equipment to answer ever more elaborate questions. The answers to these questions, however, will necessarily rely in part on mere speculation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tippu Tip's House
Description: This slowly crumbling mansion was home to one of East Africa's richest and most powerful slave traders.
Content: Stroll down Suicide Alley south from Kelele Square and you’ll pass a short flight of marble steps leading up to a heavy wooden door, its elaborate but weathered carvings hinting at the home’s former glory. This was the residence of Tippu Tip, a slave trader, ivory merchant, and plantation owner who was once a mighty figure in Zanzibar and a force to be reckoned with on the African continent.
The story of Tippu Tip, whose real name was Hamad bin Muhammad bin Juma bin Rajab el Murjebi, is straight out of the adventure books of old. Born in 1832 to a family of some standing, he left for Central Africa at an early age in search of ivory and enslaved people. His quest was fruitful, and he returned to Zanzibar with the spoils of his plundering.
Tippu Tip then went on to build himself a vast trading empire, his ruthlessness and financial acumen turning him into one of the region’s leading merchants. Along the way, he encountered explorers such as David Livingstone and Henry Morton Stanley. He claimed the Eastern Congo for the Sultan of Zanzibar, and was made governor of the Stanley Falls District in the Congo Free State. He led troops in the Congo Arab War, and all the while maintained control of his extensive assets.
By his mid-50s, Tippu Tip realized that the growing European influence in Africa was changing the trading dynamic on the continent. His influence in the Congo was also diminishing rapidly with the rise of Belgian colonization. After carefully considering his options, he returned to Zanzibar where he used his fortune to develop seven valuable clove plantations, and to manage his enslaved workers, who now numbered close to 10,000.
Back in Zanzibar, Tippu Tip had a mansion built in the historic Stone Town area of the city. With its elegant balconies and carved wooden fittings, the large townhouse was befitting of the status of a man like Tippu Tip, who retired here as a wealthy and highly respected upper-class gentleman of Swahili society.
After his death in 1905, the house remained a private residence until the Zanzibar Revolution in 1964. Then began its slow decline. It was converted into a block of flats, and is now occupied by various families of modest means. Today, its arched doorways are crisscrossed with laundry lines, its wide wooden stairways rickety and close to collapse, and the once elegant carved wooden screens stand chipped and peeling in the rays of the Zanzibar sun.
----------------------------------------
Title: Slave Market Memorial
Description: This monument is a stark reminder of the horrors of the Zanzibar slave trade.
Content: In 1873 the world’s last open slave market closed. The last vestige of this horrific institution was located in Stone Town, Zanzibar. Enslaved people were transported to Zanzibar via overcrowded dhows. With little food, rampant disease, and appalling conditions, not all of the captives survived long enough to reach Zanzibar. Those who didn’t were thrown overboard. For those that did make it, another ordeal awaited, as they were sold at this site and then were likely shipped off to various Arab countries.
Zanzibar was home to one of the largest slave markets in the world.  Although the slave trade took place all over the island, three major markets saw the bulk of these inhumane transactions. The market in Stone Town was infamous for being the most brutal. The pit and the Slave Market Memorial is in the same location where enslaved people were gathered to be brought and sold.  This memorial was created in 1998 by Clara Sornas of Scandinavia.
On one side of the memorial is a mansion housing the slave cellar, one of fifteen low-ceiling chambers. Dim, suffocating, and with no toilets, these chambers were crammed with enslaved people, where they awaited the auction block. Captives were summoned to the yard and marched to the pit. There, they would be inspected by potential buyers.
On the other side of the memorial is an Anglican church, from which you can see a mosque. A circle of white stones at the altar marks the place where the whipping post once stood  The value of enslaved people on Zanzibar was often based on how much pain they could endure at this post. An outer circle of red stones represents the bloodshed that took place. Unveiled in 1998, the Slave Market Memorial is a reminder of the sordid history of this island.
----------------------------------------
Title: Murchison Falls
Description: Where the White Nile River dramatically cascades between Lake Kyoga and Lake Albert in Uganda.
Content: Also known as Kabalega Falls, Murchison Falls is a spectacular waterfall where the White Nile bursts through a narrow rocky gap and tumultuously tumbles some 140 feet into a pool known as “The Devil’s Cauldron” before flowing into the tranquil Lake Albert.
English explorers Samuel and Florence Baker named Murchison Falls named after the president of the Royal Geographical Society, Roderick Murchison. The local name, Kabalega Falls, is a remnant of Ugandan military officer and former president Idi Amin’s regime. In the 1970s, Amin unofficially renamed Murchison Falls to Kabalega Falls in reference to Kabalega of Bunyoro, the late-19th-century king of Bunyoro, Uganda.  
Murchison Falls crown the magnificent surrounding region, which is subsequently known as Murchison Falls National Park. The park is sited in the Albertine Rift Valley’s picturesque northern end. The park was established as a game reserve in 1926, and today, it serves as the oldest and largest reserve of its kind in the nation. 
Comprised of the National Park, Bugungu Wildlife Reserve, and the Karuma Falls Wildlife Reserve, the Murchison Falls Conservation Area is home to more than 70 mammal species and 450 species of birds. The riverbanks are dotted with buffalo, hippos, and crocodiles, while elephants, lions, leopards, chimpanzees, and giraffes roam the forests and savannas.
British Prime Minister Winston Churchill visited what is now the National Park in 1907, and notably remarked that the landscape reminded him of a wild Kew Gardens. Other visitors of historical significance include Ernest Hemingway, who supposedly crashed a plane near the falls in 1954,  and former United States President Theodore Roosevelt. The area also makes an appearance in the 1951 film, The African Queen.
----------------------------------------
Title: Equator Line Restaurant
Description: This small roadside eatery exists in both the Northern and Southern hemispheres, as the equator runs right through it.
Content: Order a coffee from a barista standing in another hemisphere at this photogenic geographical oddity.
A yellow line is painted across a busy village road chock full of motorcycle taxis, thundering buses, and trucks. The line passes through a pair of bright white circular structures, bearing the words “Uganda Equator.”
This simple stripe marks the globally significant parallel at 0 degrees latitude. The equator passes through the center of these large, selfie-hotspot hoops on either side of the busy thoroughfare and goes straight through the main entrance of the Equator Line Restaurant.
Inside the eatery, the line of the equator crosses the cool tiled floor, passes a bar area, and continues as a yellow painted strip up the wall. Here, in this popular restaurant 6,025 miles from the North and South Poles, the division of Earth’s hemispheres is clearly marked for all to see.
The equatorial establishment offers visitors the chance to undertake a series of “water experiments,” one in each hemisphere, and a third directly on the equator itself, after which they are awarded an “equatorial certificate.”
In addition to all the the geographical fun to be had, visitors shouldn’t forget that the Equator Line Restaurant is also a place to dine. The eatery serves wonderfully aromatic, freshly ground Ugandan-grown coffee, and the rolex, a favorite Ugandan snack that’s a kind of mixed vegetable omelette wrapped in chapati bread. This local dish is complemented on the menu by a range of food and drink from all over the globe, upon whose principal dividing line the small eatery proudly sits.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bwindi Impenetrable Forest
Description: The home of half the world's population of critically endangered mountain gorillas.
Content: It’s tough to describe the feeling of disbelief as you watch a wild gorilla happily devour the plant that, only five minutes prior, burned your skin due to slight contact with its unforgiving leaf. The stinging nettle plant is just one of the reasons for the area’s intimidating name, the Bwindi Impenetrable Forest.
Located in the mountains of Uganda, this dense tangle of trees is home to many species, including about half of the world’s population of endangered mountain gorillas. It’s estimated that fewer than 1050 mountain gorillas exist in the world. Catching a glimpse of these rare, beasts in their natural habitat is an awe-inspiring experience.
There are several gorilla families that roam freely and peacefully around Bwindi Impenetrable Forest. This is to the credit of organizations like the Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT), Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA), Gorilla Doctors and more. These organizations hire trained gorilla trackers to spend their days finding and staying with the gorilla families. In this way, the trackers are able to study the gorillas’ behavior, condition them to see humans as a non-threat, and protect them from poachers.
Visitors have the opportunity to hike and explore the forest to spend some quality time with these smelly but beautiful creatures. Although the battle with the thick brush can last for several grueling hours, there’s no experience quite like this one. Walking and grunting among the gorillas is well worth the exhausting trek.
All the profits from a gorilla trek go into further research and conservation efforts. Not only will you find yourself standing a few feet away from a wild gorilla, but you will witness the beauty that lives within the Ugandan villages surrounding them. And don’t worry, although the stinging nettle will inevitably get you, the forest is also home to the plant that contains the remedy.
----------------------------------------
Title: Source of the Nile at Jinja
Description: A strangely forgotten claimant to the much contested title of "Source of the Nile."
Content: On August 3, 1858, John Hanning Speke discovered the source of the Nile—in a sense. What remains unquestionable is the fact that this spot became the source of a historic feud between Speke and his expedition-mate, Richard Francis Burton, who were once united in a hellbent quest to pinpoint the same headwaters David Livingstone infamously failed to locate.
This small spot along the shoreline in Jinja, Uganda, marks the place where Speke “discovered” the Nile’s headwaters at Lake Victoria while his partner, Burton, convalesced separately at Lake Tanganyika. When the two camps reunited, Burton rejected Speke’s claim in favor of his own idea that Tanganyika was the source of the Nile River. 
Burton refused to consider the matter anything but “unsettled” until Speke leveraged the British media to lay claim to the validity of his discovery. A vicious public battle ensued between the two men, and continued to spread throughout the contemporary scientific community. It took the Royal Geographic Society stepping in to send Speke back to Lake Victoria to substantiate his theory, which he did in a manner some saw questionable, before the matter of the Nile’s source was declared settled (for a time) in 1863.
The rift between the two men, however, would never heal. Speke, now a hero of the Age of Explorers, published two books that made him look a braggart. Burton, meanwhile, refused to accept defeat. A public debate between the two men was scheduled to take place at the British Association to settle matters once and for all, but on the day before the debate, Speke suffered an accidental, fatal rifle shot to the head while hunting. Popular assumption became that Speke’s death was a well-disguised suicide, motivated by a fear of facing Burton in public.
The source of all this tumult is marked by a modest sign that reads “The Source of R. Nile - Jinja - World’s Longest River” at Ripon Falls, a series of cataracts that are partially submerged due to dams constructed downriver. A small cafe and shops, as well as boat dock with tours for hire, are located adjacent to this monument.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Mburo National Park
Description: Uganda's smallest savannah park is home to over 350 species of birds and mammals.
Content: At 260 sq. km, Lake Mburo National Park is the smallest savannah national park in Uganda. The park is nestled among local Banyankole Bahima tribal land. Lake Mburo National Park is teeming with wildlife, with over 350 bird species and large animals like zebra, warthog, giraffe, hippopotamus, impala, buffalo and the elusive eland.
The park works closely with the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) on wildlife conservation. This collaboration has focused on the reintroduction of lions, baboons, eland and other wildlife that were destroyed during political unrest in the past decades.
Multiple attempts to eliminate tsetse fly infestations as well as poaching activities also resulted in wildlife loss. By working closely with UWA and tribal locals, the park is an example of how wildlife and locals can successfully co-exist. The park offers ranger-guided tours to watering holes for wildlife spotting in the park and birding trips near the lake.
Facilities include multiple restaurants close to the lake and tent/accommodation facilities to stay in the park. Expect to go on boat safaris, horseback rides, and guided ranger tours if you stay in the park. This park is a birding paradise so take your binoculars and camera for a unique Ugandan experience.
----------------------------------------
Title: Aero Beach
Description: An aeronautical-themed resort forged around rusty relics from the golden age of air travel.
Content: Leaning into the soft lakeside soil, or sandwiched between buildings like a disaster movie set, the corroded hulks of antiquated aircraft are conserved on this lively beach by Lake Victoria.  
The unlikely attraction is a mere stone’s throw from the abandoned control tower of Entebbe’s old airport, the scene of the Operation Entebbe hostage liberation in 1976. This Israeli Defence Force mission followed the hijacking of an Air France airliner en route from Tel Aviv to Paris.
Though a persistent local legend claims that one of Aero Beach’s corroded exhibits is the original hijacked plane, none of the planes here were actually involved in the incident. The particular Air France aircraft that was hijacked was spared a rusty retirement as a giant lakeside climbing frame, having been salvaged by its owners following the hostage liberation.
The airplane graveyard, which also boasts a bar and restaurant complex famed for its freshly caught tilapia dishes, is made more surreal by its series of selfie-magnet statues representing famous figures like Nelson Mandela, Queen Elizabeth II, Barack Obama, and Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni. In recognition of the historic rescue mission, a statue of Commander Yonatan Netanyahu of the Israeli Defence Force (the brother of Israeli Prime Minister, Benjamin Netanyahu), who was killed during the operation, has been recently added to the collection.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kasubi Tombs Ruins
Description: The burial ground of four Buganda monarchs was nearly destroyed by a devastating fire.
Content: Situated on Kasubi hill, within Kampala, Uganda, the Kasubi Tombs site is an active religious place in the Buganda Kingdom, the largest of the traditional kingdoms in present-day Uganda. To the millions of Baganda people the Kabaka, or ‘King’ of the Buganda people, is the unquestioned symbol of the spiritual, political, and social state of the Buganda Kingdom.
As the burial ground for the previous four Kabakas, therefore, the Kasubi Tombs are a place where the Kabaka and others in Buganda’s complex cultural hierarchy frequently carry out important Ganda rituals. To this day, the wives and daughters of previous Kabakas live and work on the site, which is guarded by representatives of Buganda’s traditional clans. The site also contains the Buganda Kingdom’s collection of ritual drums.
In 2010, the complex was struck by a devastating disaster. The mausoleum and largest grass-thatched hut in the world was gutted by fire on March 16, 2010, at about 8.30 p.m. local time. The cause of the fire is as yet unknown. Fortunately, not all of the structures were completely destroyed.
In 2014, restoration efforts backed by the Japanese government began. As such, this is still an active spiritual site and is still open to tourists.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nyero Rock Paintings
Description: Six rock shelters covered in abstract art created by ancient Ugandan tribes.
Content: The Neyro Rock Paintings, the oldest rock art in Uganda, consists of six panels of prehistoric art, including many geometric and abstract patterns. Painted in red and black pigment on six granite rock shelters, estimates put the rock art anywhere between 3,000 and 12,000 years old. Researchers believe they may have been created by the Karamojong tribe, semi-nomadic animal herders native to this region of Uganda. Visitors will have to hike to see most of the paintings, exploring some wonderful landscapes and weird rock formations along the way, as well as people living the local way of life.
----------------------------------------
Title: Semliki Safari Lodge
Description: Nestled in Uganda's Semliki Valley Wildlife Reserve, is a one-of-a-kind safari lodge.
Content: Located in the Ugandan Semliki valley wildlife reserve, the Semliki Safari Lodge is in the Western Rift Valley, with over 500 sq. km of wilderness. The lodge is remote enough for a truly wild experience and yet, known for the best ‘lodge food in Uganda’.
The main house is an open concept, built out of local materials, and wood. Guest lodgings are luxury tents with permanent thatched roofs, attached bathrooms with stunning panoramic views from the private veranda. With a maximum of 18 guests, Semliki Safari Lodge promises a secluded and intimate experience.
The forest surrounding the lodge provides beautiful morning views of baboon, monkey, buffalo, kob, hyena, forest elephant and hundreds of bird species. Day and evening forest walks as well as guided wildlife drives are a pleasant way to see wildlife. Guests return to high-end food prepared from vegetables grown on the lodge grounds as well as local Fort Portal foods. In an effort to generate minimal waste via an active recycling program, the lodge uses solar-powered lanterns/lamps.
----------------------------------------
Title: Igongo Cultural Centre
Description: One of the most detailed and historically accurate collections of Ugandan artifacts depicting Bahima tribal history, culture, and daily life.
Content: The Igongo Cultural Centre and Museum is on the former palace ground of the local Ankole king, located in Mbarara District in western Uganda. The museum is the largest exhibits center in Western Uganda.
 The museum has a vast collection of artifacts, exhibits of the agrarian and pastoral culture, history of political changes as well as present-day modernization of agricultural activities in the region. 
The Igongo Cultural Centre and Museum highlight the way of life of the tribes in southwestern Uganda, including the cattle herding tribe, Bahima, and how adaptable the region has been to new technologies and life. The tribe has collaborated with the University of Basel, Switzerland, on cheese making and milk pasteurization, which the museum has documented extensively as a success story of new technologies from Europe reaching Uganda.
The museum is part of the Cultural Centre, which encompasses a state-of-the-art hotel with conference facilities. Day trips from the Centre include visits to the Biharwe Eclipse monument in Mbarara, honey farms, as well as evening entertainment and meetings with the Bahima tribespeople.
The museum staff can arrange bespoke events that include afternoon sessions with the local tribespeople in eshawbwe-making from ghee/clarified butter made from Ankole cow milk, and millet bread-making. Other activities include trips to the local Ankole cow farm for a hands-on milking experience. The Centre has two restaurants that serve local, authentic Bahima and Ugandan food.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kidepo Valley National Park
Description: This park is home to around 500 bird species.
Content: Tucked away in the Northeastern part of Uganda lies Kidepo Valley National Park. This 557 square miles of pure wilderness borders South Sudan and Kenya.
Nestled between the rugged hills of the semi-arid Karamoja, the park is nourished by two seasonal rivers, the Kidepo River and the Narus River. The Narus Valley is a permanent wetland that quenches the thirst of all the wildlife in the park. The vast and unending savanna plains, with an occasional acacia tree breaking through the landscape best describes Kidepo.
The park is home to 77 mammal species and 500 bird species. These can be seen as visitors drive through the beaten tracks on a safari adventure. The vast herds of buffalo and elephants have become a trademark of the park.
Rocky outcrops such as the Kakine rock and leopard rock are resting places for big carnivores Other mammal species include cheetahs, elands, zebras, Jackson’s hartebeests, stripped jackals, hyenas, and many more. Rare bird species such as ostriches, secretary birds, Kori bustards, pygmy falcons, and Egyptian vultures also call this park home.
The national park is surrounded by a local group known as the Ik people. They reside in the neighboring hills and offer amazing cultural safaris. Their ancestral roots can be traced back to southern Egypt.
----------------------------------------
Title: Jinja War Cemetery
Description: The final resting place of soldiers who fell during the First and Second World Wars.
Content: Jinja War Cemetery is a peaceful and well-kept graveyard where rows of white headstones mark the final resting places of both European and African soldiers who died during World War I and World War II.
Today, the city of Jinja on the banks of Lake Victoria is best known for two things: It’s the historic source of the Nile River, and is now one of the main hubs in East Africa for outdoor activities like kayaking, mountain biking, and quad biking.
But before all this, Jinja was the center for the King’s African Rifles (KAR) in Uganda during the Second World War. Established in 1902, the KAR was a multi-battalion British colonial regiment that served in East Africa. Its rank and file was formed mainly from African soldiers known as askaris, while most of the officers were from the British Army. Starting in the 1960s, as former African colonies began achieving independence, the regiment began to break apart.
The Jinja War Cemetery was created as the last resting place for fallen soldiers of the KAR, the vast majority of whom died during World War II. According to the Commonwealth War Graves Commission, the cemetery contains only one First World War burial and 179 burials and commemorations from the Second World War.
Most of the graves are those of Ugandans who fought and died with the KAR. There are only a handful of British graves, the most notable being that of Sergeant V.L. Holloway, who died in 1944 while serving in Great Britain’s Royal Army Service Corps. His headstone bears a famous line from the poem “The Soldier” by Rupert Brooke: “There’s some corner of a foreign field that is for ever England.”
Also within the cemetery is the Jinja Memorial, a wall that commemorates more than 120 men of the East African Forces who died while serving in World War II. These men were buried in other parts of Uganda, but their graves were later deemed unmaintainable.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kigungu Missionary Landing Site
Description: A monument marks the spot where the first Catholic missionaries arrived in Uganda.
Content: In 1879, two French missionaries crossed Lake Victoria and landed on the Kigungu Peninsular. They were the first Catholic missionaries to arrive in Uganda, and an annual pilgrimage still convenes at the site of their landing.
Today, Christianity is the dominant religion in Uganda. The majority of the population (around 80 percent) is Christian, with almost 40 percent identifying as Roman Catholic. And it all began when two French missionaries landed on the northern shores of Lake Victoria.
On April 22, 1878, the First Caravan of a Roman Catholic society known as the White Fathers left Marseilles for Africa. The missionaries landed on Zanzibar on June 17, before heading on foot into the African interior.
It was a challenging journey through unknown territory, and when the caravan reached Lake Victoria, only two of the group decided to push on across the lake. These two men, Father Simeon Lourdel and Brother Amans, crossed the lake and arrived near Entebbe on the Kigungu Peninsular on February 17, 1879—a day known recognized as the arrival of Catholicism in Uganda.
The two missionaries continued north, passing through Kisubi and Rubaga, by which time their arrival had been brought to the attention of Muteesa I, the Kabaka (King) of the Kingdom of Buganda (a subnational kingdom which still exists in Uganda today). Muteesa I ordered that the two French missionaries be taken to Kitebi, where they spent 15 days, both suffering from fever.
It was a crucial time for the missionaries. Food was scarce, and without approval from the king, their fates were very much in the balance. But on February 23, as the two men battled their fevers, Muteesa I sanctioned their arrival and sent canoes across the lake to bring the rest of the caravan to Uganda.
Not long after, the missionaries visited Muteesa I at his capital of Banda-Kampala. He gave them Lubya Hill on which to build churches, schools, and hospitals. The king, meanwhile, continued to court other new arrivals, including Arab traders and Muslim missionaries, while at the same time fathering 98 children with his 87 wives. He was, if nothing else, a very busy man.
Today, a brick monument marks the spot on which the two missionaries first landed in Uganda. At either side of the monument are statues of the two men, both kneeling, one in prayer and the other with hands raised towards the heavens. A plaque on the monument reads: “On this spot landed the first Catholic missionaries of Uganda on the 17th day of February in the year of our Lord 1879; Reverend Simeon Lourdel and Brother Amans of the society of the White Fathers.”
Since the 1960s, the site has become an increasingly important pilgrimage destination among Uganda’s Catholic population. Each year on February 17, hundreds of pilgrims travel to Kigungu to commemorate the arrival of Christianity in Uganda, and to pay their respects to Father Simeon Lourdel and Brother Amans.
----------------------------------------
Title: Devil's Swimming Pool
Description: The world's highest and most dangerous infinity pool lies at the precipice of Victoria Falls.
Content: When the water running off of Victoria Falls is at a certain level, a small pool with almost no current forms which adventurous tourists have dubbed the Devil’s Swimming pool.
Formed by a rock barrier at the edge of the falls, the water hole welcomes any daring swimmer the opportunity to wade right up to the edge of the falls themselves. However a small amount of deaths have occurred when people are swept over the edge.
The pool is accessible during the hot dry season (usually between September and November, when the water level is at its lowest).
----------------------------------------
Title: Kapishya Hot Springs
Description: A secluded natural oasis hidden deep along a rainforest trail.
Content: Tucked deep along a bushy rainforest trail is a serene hot spring surrounded by tangles of leafy trees. The secluded spot feels like a hidden gem within a corner of a sprawling 20th-century colonial estate.
A retaining wall keeps the naturally heated reservoir at a perfect temperature—and keeps any curious crocodiles at bay. The springs have been well-managed for some time, and the grounds surely are a testament to the work put in over these many years.
When you’re done soaking in the hot springs, you can explore all the scenic landscape has to offer. The grounds themselves are home to expansive gardens, as well as an expanding coffee plantation. The many paths are coated with an array of natural and exotic flora species, with descriptive markers on most of them. Just as you’re about lose yourself on the trail, the gate of the hot springs lodge comes into display with beauty surrounding every corner.
With options to camp along the mighty river bank or cozy up in one of the chalets, the lodge has an array of activities that you could get lost in, such as white water rafting, hiking, and playing with puppies. Less than a mile down the road is an incredible scenic hike, allowing you to view deeply into the Shiwa valley.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lusaka National Museum's Witchcraft Exhibit
Description: Artifacts showcasing the witchy history of Zambia.
Content: The Lusaka National Museum is an impressive building on Independence Avenue that is dedicated to telling the story of Zambia.
The museum is divided into sections: history, ethnography, art, the usual fare—but the fourth section is devoted to witchcraft. The witchcraft exhibit is a fascinating window into the traditional beliefs of Zambia, a blend of Christianity, superstition, and magic.
Among the items on display are a snakeskin belt that helped a sorcerer sleep with another man’s wife while the husband was in the same bed, a collection of dolls responsible for all sorts of curses and maledictions, and a potion that allowed the wearer to magically steal crops from a neighbor’s fields.
While many of the exhibits are relics of the past, there was a new addition to the museum in 2013 that involved a more contemporary, and cruel, form of witchcraft.  In June 2013, three brothers (Mika, Fabian, and Stephano) were killed by a coalition of the Zambian police and army.  The shootout was the culmination of a seven year search for the brothers who were responsible for murdering 12 people in cold blood. The Mailoni Brothers are well known in Southern Africa, and they have left Zambia with some disturbing, unanswered questions.  How could 3 illiterate brothers have avoided capture for seven years?  What drove them to murder?  Why were they carrying Christian iconography?  The answer, for many Zambians, is witchcraft. In July of that same year, the museum acquired the Mailoni brothers’ possessions: crude knives, spears, and a bow and arrow and added them to the witchcraft exhibit.  
 In reality, the brothers represent a fundamental question that witchcraft, as well as all religions, attempt to answer—how can one protect themselves from the evil in this world?
----------------------------------------
Title: Kasanka Bat Migration
Description: Zambia's smallest national park is home to one of the world's largest annual mammal migrations.
Content: Located on the edge of the Bangweulu Wetlands, Kasanka National Park, the smallest and one of the lesser-known national parks in Zambia, is nonetheless a gem for wildlife lovers, home to a diverse array of habitats and animals. The high number of pans, papyrus swamps, dambos, and floodplains makes Kasanka an especially good haunt for birders, with more than 400 avian species recorded in the park.
What the park is most notable for, however, is the enormous annual bat migration. Between November and December each year, some 5 million to 10 million straw-colored fruit bats (Eidolon helvum) descend on the park to feast on the area’s musuku, mufinsa, and other fruit trees. Scientists are not sure exactly where the bats spend the rest of the year, though they are known to come from deep in the Congo rainforest.
Visitors hoping to catch a glimpse of this thrilling sight are led on guided tours to various tree hides in the park during the dawn and dusk hours when the nocturnal creatures are especially active. There are so many bats that they darken the sky. The sheer number of bats makes this tradition one of the largest annual mammal migrations on the planet.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chishimba Falls
Description: Arrogance and quarreling are forbidden near these three sacred waterfalls.
Content: The spellbinding beauty of these waterfalls isn’t the only thing keeping visitors on their best behavior. According to the tradition of the Bemba people, the watery wonder is home to the nature spirit Chishimba, who lives in a cave behind the falls. Because of the spirit’s presence, bad behavior, including fights, insults, and arrogance, is not allowed in the vicinity of the falls.
Chishimba Falls is actually a series of three waterfalls along the Luombe River. The individual falls are named Mutumuna, Kaela, and Chishimba, and are separated by a distance of fewer than 1,000 feet.
Though the Bemba people arrived in this area in the 17th century, they weren’t the first to call this spectacular sliver of nature home. The land surrounding the falls is dotted with evidence of Iron Age activities, including kilns, smelting pipes, and iron ore deposits.
The falls are stunning in their natural beauty, with water cascading year-round over wide granite cliff faces. The falls are surrounded by thick mist forests, which provide a home to many birds and other wildlife. Trails throughout the park and several gazebos offer excellent views of each of the falls and access to the entire site.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chirundu Fossil Forest
Description: The petrified remains of 150-million-year-old trees can be seen in and among the houses of the local villagers.
Content: About 150 million years ago, in what is now the Luangwa Valley, a totally different ecosystem flourished than the one found there today. At that time, large coniferous trees thrived, such as Dadyoxlon sp. and Rhexoxylon africanum. When these trees died, they were eventually buried and turned to stone.
The site today contains a large number of extremely well-preserved ancient trees, with features such as tree rings and bark still visible on the fossils. Many of the trees are lying in what appears to be the same location and position as when they fell during the Jurassic Period. The fossils are in a large array of sizes, from small fragments to complete logs up to 30 feet long.
Scientists posit that 150 million years ago, what is today a desert region enjoyed a more temperate and wet climate, favorable to growing tall coniferous trees, but also prone to storms and floods. A giant flood may have felled the large trees in this ancient forest, which were then preserved in a layer of soil and petrified as the organic materials were replaced by minerals. In modern times, the unique Chirundu Fossilized Forest is a National Monument of Zambia.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kalambo Falls
Description: This stunning waterfall is the backdrop to a site that has seen continuous human habitation for 250,000 years.
Content: In the Mbala district in Zambia, the Kalambo River forms the northern border of the country with Tanzania. Along the river is Kalambo Falls, a 725 foot (221 meters) high single-drop waterfall, making it the second-highest in Africa.
Besides the stunning views, Kalambo Falls is an important archaeological site, with the earliest evidence of human habitation dating approximately 250,000 years ago until the present day. This makes Kalambo Falls one of the longest continuously inhabited areas in the world.
From 1953 to 1963, archaeologist J.D. Clark made extensive excavations of the Kalambo Falls site. He found evidence of continuous habitation at the site dating to the early Stone Age. These finds included stone tools, hearths, and well-preserved organic objects.
Kalambo Falls represents one of the strongest sites for evidence of early fire use by humans, with artifacts including charred logs, charcoal, and fire-hardened wooden implements dating to 60,000 years ago. Additional artifacts, such as heavy woodworking tools and burial sites, provide evidence of habitation in the region through the middle and late Stone Ages to the Iron Age, which saw the introduction of the Bantu people.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nachikufu Cave
Description: This fascinating cave is packed with prehistoric rock art and Stone Age tools.
Content: This cave is a must-see for any archaeology enthusiast. Excavations into its floor have revealed a long and detailed history of human habitation, dating to as far back as 15,000 to 20,000 years ago. In the pre-colonial era, the cave was also used by the Bisa and Lala people to hide from the Bemba and Ngoni raids.
Archaeological digs have discovered evidence of three distinct Stone Age industries, dubbed Nachikufan I, II, and III. It’s the best such stone age sequence in Zambia, and does more than just hint at the area’s human history.
In addition to the archaeological evidence, the cave contains several rock paintings, though many are unfortunately quite faded and difficult to see. There are three different types of paintings, including the only black rock paintings in Zambia. The earliest paintings include red, geometric paintings, and naturalistic paintings of elephants, antelope, and other animals done in a black silhouette. The most recent paintings are done in greasy white paints and depict tools and unidentified animals.
The cave contains several small displays depicting enhanced pictures of the drawings in the cave, along with artifacts excavated in the cave. The displays explain the history of the site’s human habitation and are useful for explaining its archaeological history. In addition, viewpoints outside the cave provide excellent vantage points of the beautiful surrounding landscape.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mwela Rock Art Paintings
Description: One of the largest concentrations of rock paintings in Southern Africa.
Content: Head to the outskirts of Kasama, and you’ll find a series of rock outcroppings containing hundreds of paintings from Stone Age communities. It’s one of the largest collections of such paintings in all of Southern Africa.
The rock outcroppings, which dominate the local landscape, contain numerous caves and were a natural gathering point for both animals and ancient humans. The majority of the paintings there are attributed to the Batwa.
The paintings at the site, which covers an area of about 40 square miles, fall into two distinct categories. Some have a geometric or schematic style, while others follow a more realistic animal tradition. The geometric paintings include dots and lines arranged in squares, grids, circles, and ladders. Animals depicted in the paintings include elephants, elands, lions, bush pigs, and praying mantis. The paintings are thought to have either been guides to the animals that people hunted or used for ceremonies such as weather divination.
Nearby archaeological digs have discovered Stone Age tools. These artifacts include blades, bored stones, dimpled anvils, grindstones, axes, and microliths. These tools, along with the rock painting, show that the area around modern Kasama has been continuously inhabited for thousands of years.
----------------------------------------
Title: Source of the Zambezi
Description: Africa's fourth longest river originates from a burbling spring in a secluded stretch of woods.
Content: A small spring gurgles within a lush forest. It may seem humble, but it’s actually the origin of a mighty waterway.
The Zambezi is Zambia’s most important river. It gives the country its name, and it most famously flows over Victoria Falls. Along the Barotse floodplain, it’s the location of Zambia’s most famous cultural ceremony, the Kuomboka of the Litunga. It’s the fourth longest river in Africa, and it gets its start along its 1,677-mile (2,700-kilometer) journey to the Indian Ocean from a small spring in the Northwestern corner of Zambia.
The Source of the Zambezi is located in a small protected forest. It’s surrounded by a rich Miombo woodland and a strip of Mushitu forest. The area is rich in biodiversity, with nearly 200 bird species and mammals including the Tree Pangolin, Long Footed Rat, Red-Tailed Monkey, and African Palm Civet.
Within the protected forest, elevated wooden walkways lead to the source and follow the path of the river down the valley for some distance. The source itself is a small spring that bubbles beneath the bottom of a fallen tree.
A visitor’s center explains the importance of the Zambezi River, and provides information on the forest environment. The site also includes a monument to mark the Independence of Zambia, unveiled on 24th October 1964.
----------------------------------------
Title: Itimbwe Gorge
Description: A series of caves within the gorge hold artifacts from the Stone Age.
Content: Itimbwe Gorge is a small but beautiful valley cutting through the escarpment east of Mbala, Zambia. The gorge walls are lined with a series of caves formed from when the silica in the rock dissolved away as groundwater penetrated from above. 
Archaeological excavations of the caves revealed artifacts such as buried pots and stone tools—including awls and scrapers—that date back to the Stone Age. The different caves in the valley show different levels of habitation, from occasional use by hunters to long and continuous use revealed by artifacts throughout the strata of the cave floors.
Unfortunately, the most recent archaeological work on the site was in the 1950s. A lack of funds or interest has prevented further excavations of the caves since then.
In modern times, the gorge is still inhabited by farmers, and an old homestead can be found at the bottom of the gorge. Although game is rare in the area, the hills are easily accessible and offer stunning views of the plains to the west of the escarpment.
----------------------------------------
Title: Niamkolo Church
Description: Now abandoned, this stone church was part of the missionary efforts that initiated the Christianization of Zambia.
Content: This defunct church on the shores of Lake Tanganyika may no longer be active, but it remains a potent historical marker of how British colonialism changed Zambia forever.
Missionaries first came to the region in the 1880s. The expansion of European empires heightened interest in mission societies, who saw opportunity in newly colonized territories and their native peoples. Inspired by the travels and writings of missionary explorer David Livingstone, several different missionary societies moved to establish missions in the central African regions he explored. The London Missionary Society, with which Livingstone first began his travels, was the first of these organizations to establish a mission in what would become Zambia. 
The mission’s lakeside location positioned it to readily welcome travelers arriving by boat, causing it to flourish. It did so well that between 1895 and 1896, the mission upgraded to a large stone church overlooking the lake.
The church served as a place of worship continuously until 1908, when the mission moved inland to avoid the sleeping sickness carried by tsetse flies near the lake. The original church has been declared a national monument in Zambia. It’s the oldest surviving stone church in the country. Though its walls still stand, the roof is no more.
----------------------------------------
Title: Fort Zombe
Description: The ruins of a massive World War I fort overlook the border between Zambia and Tanzania.
Content: Stretches of stone spill across a hill overlooking both Zambia and Tanzania. It’s a remnant of Fort Zombe, one of the area’s most significant fortifications built during World War I. 
During World War I, British forces in Zambia (then Northern Rhodesia) had to defend their border with Tanzania (then German East Africa). The fort was constructed between 1917 and 1918, when the war in Africa was intensifying. It was built to give the British troops the ability to keep an eye out for any German advances.
The site itself its surrounded by an outside enclosure measuring just over one mile (approximately two kilometers) all around. Today, this outer stone wall has collapsed, but it was reported to be about 13 feet (four meters) high and very thick.
Along the outside enclosure are small structures that appear to have been sniper points. Inside the outer wall are other structures, including those believed to have been bunkers, sleeping quarters, and storage spaces for food and weapons.
Also the top of the hill, approximately 330 feet (about 100 meters) from inside fortifications, are the remains of a gravesite reported by the local villagers to have held the remains of the last soldier killed in Zambia during the war. The grave was reportedly exhumed by “foreigners” in the 1980s, and the modern remains include a concrete slab reading “erected by E P Chesnaye, est dist comm., Abercorn” (Abercorn was the colonial-era name of Mbala).
At the foot of the hill is a Y-shaped trench that protects the water source for the fort. Throughout the site, it’s still possible to find artifacts of the occupation, including food tins and bottles. Besides the history of the site, the location provides beautiful views of the surrounding valleys and mountains into Tanzania.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ndola Slave Tree
Description: Once a meeting point for Swahili slave traders, this ancient tree is now a monument to those killed by the slave trade.
Content: Ndola is one of the most prominent towns in Zambia’s Copperbelt province. Today, the numerous copper mines in the region provide the region’s wealth. But in the past, a darker industry spurred the settlement.
Still standing near the center of town, the Slave Tree was the central location where Swahili slave traders met to discuss their gruesome transactions. Under its shade, Swahili traders such as Chipembere, Mwalabu, and Chiwala held councils of war and sold enslaved people to the Mambundu from Angola.
Much of central and southern Africa, including modern-day Zambia, was crisscrossed by slave traders transporting human captives to the Swahili coast to be sold to Arab slave traders. These traders would enslave people themselves or buy people who had been captured by warring local tribes.
Slavery was abolished in Zambia early in the 1900s, when the British Colonial Administration was established. The town of Ndola itself was founded in 1904 after the discovery of copper at the Bwana Mkubwa mine at the site of the slave trading post. The Slave Tree was left standing as a monument to the lives lost to the slave trade.
----------------------------------------
Title: Livingstone Memorial
Description: An obelisk marks the spot where a British explorer's heart was buried before the rest of his body was transported to England.
Content: In 1866, the famed British missionary and explorer Dr. David Livingstone set off for what was to be his last African journey. In 1873, while attempting to map the rivers flowing into and out of the Bangweulu wetlands, he contracted dysentery and eventually died at age 60 in the village of Chief Chitambo in Zambia.
Death was not to be the end of the journey for Dr. Livingstone, however. His attendants, Chuma and Susi, wanted to return his body to his homeland in the United Kingdom. They removed his heart and viscera, smeared his body with salt, and allowed it to dry for 14 days in the sun. They then carried his body 930 miles (1,500 kilometers) to the coast, from it was transported back to England and eventually buried with national honors at Westminster Abbey in London.
The spot where Dr. Livingstone’s heart and viscera were buried was originally marked by an inscription carved into a mvula tree. In 1899, the tree was cut down and the carving transported to the Royal Geographical Society in London. In 1902, a memorial was constructed on the burial site in the form of a stone obelisk with two brass plaques.
The monument has been maintained throughout the years and the plaques have been replaced. A third plaque was added in 1973 to mark the centennial of Dr. Livingstone’s death. Next to the memorial is a mvula tree descended from the original tree that marked the spot.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kifubwa Stream Rock Shelter
Description: Rare pigmented engravings cover the walls of this Stone Age shelter.
Content: A beautiful swath of nature hides a prehistoric secret. There, etched into a rock shelter, are the marks of the people who called this land home thousands of years ago.
The Kifubwa Stream Rock Shelters are located along a picturesque valley on the Kifubwa Stream. The most stunning feature of the rock shelters is a series of engravings underneath a series of rock overhangs.
These engravings consist almost entirely of geometric line markings and “U” motifs. They were made using the “incision technique,” where the stone of the rock shelter was repeatedly rubbed or chipped away using harder stones. Unusual for Zambia, these engravings were combined with painting, as red pigment was used to color in the engravings.
The Kifubwa Stream Rock Shelters were first discovered by Western scholars in 1928. Excavations of the floor of the rock shelters revealed evidence of Late Stone Age hunter-gather occupation, carbon dated to between 6,000 and 6,500 years ago. A the time, it was the first site to show a clear connection between local rock engravings and Late Stone Age communities.
----------------------------------------
Title: Great Zimbabwe
Description: The largest prehistoric ruins south of the Sahara, once a powerful center of international trade.
Content: The ruins of this once-magnificent city are rich in historical significance, architectural wonders, and unsolved mysteries.
Until fairly recently, the origin of Great Zimbabwe was a contentious issue among Western archeologists, most of whom initially refused to believe such an impressive and complex structure could be the work of native Africans. When Portuguese traders first described the massive city in the 16th century, the site was popularly believed to be one of the fabled cities built by the Queen of Sheba. Nineteenth-century archeologists posited that the city was of Egyptian or Phoenician origin. With reasoning characteristic of the racial attitudes that defined the era of Western colonization of Africa, the presence of indigenous artifacts in the city was regarded as evidence not of the original builders, but of the subsequent occupation.
Attempts by Westerners to establish a non-African race as the city’s original designers resulted in the removal and destruction of numerous original artifacts and a devastating loss of archeological evidence. Despite this loss, objective findings by 20th-century archeologists eventually led to the conclusion that the city was indeed of African origin, though such findings were later repressed in attempts to undermine the African Nationalist movement. Today the builders are widely recognized to be ancestors of the Shona tribe, one of the region’s Bantu-speaking groups. The name “Zimbabwe” is said to have come from the phrase “dzimba dza mabwe” in the Karanga dialect, meaning roughly “houses of stone”.  
Great Zimbabwe is estimated to have been built between 1100 and 1450 AD, and its ruins span roughly 1,800 acres. The city, which may have housed anywhere from 12,000 to 18,000 residents in its prime, is divided into three distinct architectural groups known as the Hill Complex, the Valley Complex, and the Great Enclosure. The Great Enclosure bears the distinction of being the largest sub-Saharan prehistoric structure and boasts an 800-foot-long outer wall. These walls, which reach heights of 32 feet, were constructed entirely without the use of mortar; the granite used in the walls’ construction was split into blocks that fit together evenly and did not require the use of any kind of binding substance. Great Zimbabwe was once believed to be a hub of international trade, and artifacts recovered from the site were brought from as far away as China. Indigenous artifacts include eight large Zimbabwe birds carved from soapstone, which were believed to originally stand in the Eastern Enclosure of the Hill Complex.
Though the identity of the city’s builders is no longer debated, many questions remain. The site, though well-positioned for trade, was not suited for the large-scale farming necessary to support the city’s population, and it is speculated that the depletion of natural resources played a role in its eventual abandonment. Despite researchers’ best guesses, however, the motivation behind the city’s initial construction and its later abandonment by the original inhabitants remains a mystery. The purpose of some of the city’s more prominent structures, such as the Conical Tower, also remains unknown.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chinhoyi Caves
Description: The stunningly blue waters of these beautiful caves also have a violent past.
Content: Chinhoyi Caves National Park is a hidden gem not far from Zimbabwe’s capital Harare. Visitors to the park will find stunningly blue pools inside preserved limestone and dolomite caves. Inside the caves, the air becomes cool and damp and silence descends as one walks down to the water. Holes in the roof of the cave usher in sunlight that illuminates its depths.
One of the best parts of visiting the caves is that you’re likely to have them to yourself to enjoy in subterranean silence. 
What visitors can see is only the tip of the iceberg. The caves continue incredibly far underground in a complex limestone formation. The water is so clear and constant in temperature that scuba teams have descended to depths of more than 300 feet (100 meters). They have discovered subterranean passages linking the various pools. How deep these caves venture is still a mystery. 
Although serene, there is a bit of violent history surrounding the caves. In the early 1800s, as the story goes, an aggressive tribe swept into the region and murdered many local people. Their bodies were then tossed into the cave. The traditional name of the caves, Chirorodziva or “Pool of the Fallen” commemorates this event.
----------------------------------------
Title: Balancing Rocks of the Zimbabwe Dollar
Description: These naturally balancing rocks were pictured on every Zimbabwean banknote, up to the 100 trillion-dollar note.
Content: These three balancing rocks were once the main design motif of one of the highest of the high denomination currencies in the world, the Zimbabwean dollar. Every note issued by Zimbabwe’s Central Bank—from the one-dollar note issued after independence in 1980 to the 100 trillion-dollar banknote (100,000,000,000,000) issued in the hyper-inflationary zenith of 2008, has pictured these three stones.
The image of the stones was chosen as a conjoined metaphor for development and environmental protection following the country’s independence from white-ruled Rhodesia. The rocks themselves can be found in a national park with an abandoned feel in Epworth, a suburb in the thinly signposted outskirts of Harare. The stones pictured on the banknotes are the most iconic example of this peculiar geological feature found in many places throughout Zimbabwe: rocks formations naturally situated in perfect balance.
Matopos itself is well worth seeking out. Once inside, visitors can either walk or drive around the Stone Age rock formations with evocative names like the “Giant’s Playground” and “Flying Boat.” Even rocks with no honorific convey a silent magnitude. Outside the park, some enterprising residents have built their homes among the giant boulders that pock all of Epworth.    
The Zimbabwean dollar, however, is no more. The government effectively abandoned its currency and was de-monetised entirely in 2015. Now, the notes can be found on eBay, on the back of playing cards, in the hands of hawkers trying to sell the dead currency to tourists visiting Zimbabwe, or as props for cautionary tales of the dangers of runaway inflation, devaluations, and mercurial government economic policy.
Nowadays, Zimbabwe has a multi-currency system. Money from almost every continent in the world is legal tender: the Aussie dollar, the British pound, the Botswanan pula, the Chinese Yuan, the Euro, the Indian Rupee, the Japanese yen, the South African rand. However, the most predominant note in circulation is the U.S. dollar in which prices are quoted in shops, restaurants, and, yes, even parks housing the iconic balancing stones. “Bond coins” of 1,2,5,10, 25 and 50 cent dominations are given out as small change.  
But the stones are making a making a comeback in the newest type of money in Zimbabwe’s bountiful currency basket. Last year, the Zimbabwean government introduced a “bond note” that is pegged to the U.S. dollar and is illustrated with those same rocks from the old Zimbabwean dollar. Only a 2 dollar bond note is in circulation currently, but the government plans to incrementally introduce 5, 10, 20 and 50 dollar values over the next few months.
Having a local currency bound to another is unusual, but by no means unique. Bosnia-Herzegovina has convertible mark tied originally to the German Deutschmark and now to the euro. For 50 or so years, there was de facto parity between the pounds of Ireland and the United Kingdom. But there remains apprehensiveness among many Zimbabweans who remember the old Zimbabwe dollar days. They live in hope that their new money will be as solid, stable, and unwavering as these three majestic rocks themselves.
----------------------------------------
Title: Daramombe Rock Paintings
Description: Several ancient rock paintings can be found on the hills surrounding the Daramombe High School.
Content: Next to the big Daramombe Hill (where according to the local customs you can not complain or you will get lost), you can find different small hills consisting out of different sized boulders. Such hills also go by the name of kopjes.
The rock paintings are scattered around the kopjes, some are very clear and big while others are small and slowly fading away. You can also encounter a graveyard of the first missionaries who build the school in 1939.  
The school as well as the big Anglican church was destroyed during the liberation war of Zimbabwe in 1970 but has been restored. The Anglican church still has its original walls, only the roof had to be completely restored.
There are a lot of rock paintings that can be found at the different kopjes, some include a clear elephant, African drums, hunters, and many animals. No official research has ever been done to get to know more about the different rock paintings, so very little is known about them.
----------------------------------------
