Title: Royal Mausoleum of Mauretania
Description: The original resting place of Queen Cleopatra and Mark Antony's only daughter.
Content: While it’s one of the least visited countries in the world, Algeria boasts some of the most well-preserved and diverse Roman ruins outside of Italy. Among its largest relics is the marvelously imposing tomb of the only daughter of one of history’s most famous leaders.
While Cleopatra has become a staple of modern culture, her daughter Princess Cleopatra Selene II is much less well known. Born in Egypt around 40 BC, Cleopatra Selene was brought to Rome after her parents committed suicide following her father Mark Antony’s defeat in the Battle of Actium. Some 10 to 16 years later, she was married to Juba II, a Berber prince from modern-day Algeria.
The newlyweds were given orders to rule Mauretania, a previously unorganized and loosely governed Roman vassal state spreading from Algeria and Morocco, which they did quite successfully until Cleopatra Selene died sometime around 6 BC.
The mausoleum in which the princess was buried was commissioned by her husband and, given its size, seems to have been intended to house the remains of the entire royal family. When King Juba died in 23 AD, he was buried in the mausoleum with his wife.
Over the last two centuries, the mausoleum has been repeatedly ransacked and attacked by treasure seekers and military strongmen. Cleopatra and Juba’s human remains, in fact, were removed from the burial site long ago, most likely by looters. In 1555, an Ottoman admiral by the name of Salah Rais ordered the mausoleum destroyed. Upon entering the monument, however, Rais’ men were met with a massive swarm of black wasps, which promptly attacked and stung many of the would-be saboteurs. The attack was so fierce that several of the men actually died from their stings. Seeing this as a sign that the mausoleum shouldn’t be disturbed, the project was abandoned. Many years later, the occupying French Navy used the site for target practice, resulting in some minor damage to the structure.
In 1866, Emperor Napoleon III visited the mausoleum. Thoroughly impressed with the structure, he righted the French Navy’s wrongs and demanded that the building be preserved and protected, allowing modern visitors a chance to wonder at the ruin and remember the life of a princess that may have otherwise been forgotten by time.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tipasa Roman Ruins
Description: An extraordinary mix of Phoenician, Roman, early Christian, and Byzantine ruins beautifully set overlooking the Mediterranean.
Content: When you set foot in Tipasa, you see exactly why this plot of land has long been a prime piece of Mediterranean real estate. Among honeyed beaches, shady pine trees, and gently rolling hills, the sweeping turquoise sea serves as the backdrop for a layered history of golden ruins overlooking the coastal cliff.
Colonized several times over between the 6th century BC and the 6th century AD, Tipasa originated as a trading center for the Phoenicians of Carthage. At that point, the city served as a port from which the population could buy and sell commercial goods with Greece, Italy, and the Iberian Peninsula. But not for long.
Over time, the ancient settlement would variably fall under the rule of the Romans, early Christians, and Byzantines, each of whom used the territory as a trading post and/or a launching point for conquests into the kingdoms of Mauritania.
A walk through the centuries of remodels and new additions at the site features a comprehensive Punic necropolis; ancient toilets; an amphitheater that saw gladiator throw-downs and naval battle reenactments; a second theater because, well, one entertainment venue is never enough; a Christian religious complex fitted with thermal baths, basilicas, and tombs; and, of course, the main streets of the once-bustling town center, which stretch directly out to the sea. 
Under Roman rule, a defensive wall was erected around the city to protect it from nomadic tribes, as the site became a serious military and commercial contender. The central location of Tipasa also enabled the Romans to build up their North African road system.
Later, as Christianity spread, religious buildings did too, including the Great Basilica and the Basilica Alexander—focal points of Tipasa’s western section—while the Basilica of St. Salsa served those too lazy to walk over and attend mass from the eastern side of town. 
Alongside the folds of colonial ruins, monuments of the indigenous people of the area also stand. The most notable is the nearby royal mausoleum, Kbor er Roumia, which is the funerary monument of Berber King Juba II and Queen Cleopatra Selene II (Cleopatra and Marc Antony’s only daughter).
Tipasa took a hit by the Vandal king Huneric in 429, who persecuted its Catholics, the remainder of whom fled for their lives to Spain. After this, the ancient city was abandoned, and although the Byzantines revitalized it somewhat in the 6th century, it fell into ruin shortly after.
Tipasa has been called “one of the most extraordinary archaeological complexes of the Maghreb” by UNESCO. And it certainly is worthy of the title. Be sure to fill up on couscous before the trip!
----------------------------------------
Title: Sidi M'Cid Bridge
Description: This dizzying span over the ancient Algerian city was once the highest suspension bridge in the world.
Content: The Sidi M’Cid suspension bridge is the highest and most stunning of all the bridges in the Algerian city of Constantine, often called the “City of Bridges” thanks to its unique and picturesque geography.
The 2,000-year-old city is located about 50 miles inland from Algeria’s Mediterranian coast, set on a high plateau split in half by a deep and dramatic gorge. A series of historic bridges span across the Rhummel River gorge that runs through Constantine, but the Sidi M’Cid Bridge is the most iconic—the highest link between the rocks that divide the city in two.
Built in 1912, the Sidi M’Cid Bridge stands 575 feet (175 meters) high. At the time it was built, it was the highest suspension bridge in the world (surpassed by the Royal Gorge Bridge in Colorado in 1929). It dominates the gorge, offering an exceptional view over part of the city and valley beyond. 
This dizzying road bridge connects the Medina of Constantine to the university hospital center. The architectural design, a hybrid cable-stayed suspension bridge, gives it a similar look to another iconic monument across the Atlantic: the Brooklyn Bridge— although the Sidi M’Cid Bridge is more than twice as high.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tassili n'Ajjer
Description: The abstract sandstone rock formations at this Algerian national park are rich with prehistoric art.
Content: Just outside the desert oasis of Djanet, Algeria, there’s a national park brimming with pieces of the past. A trip through the alien-like landscape of Tassili n’Ajjer is like stepping into an open-air art gallery, where the sandstone rock formations become canvases for more than 15,000 prehistoric carvings and paintings.
According to UNESCO, the park holds one of the world’s most important clusters of prehistoric rock art. The paintings and carvings offer a fascinating look at the animal migrations, changes in climate, and human life that helped shape the area’s history.
The artwork is from the Neolithic period, back when this slice of the Sahara was a savanna teeming with wildlife like antelopes, giraffes, and crocodiles. You’ll find images of these creatures etched or painted onto the rocks.
You’ll also find images of humans which act like a historical snapshot of daily life. In these, you’ll see people doing a range of activities like dancing, hunting, or handling their livestock.
In addition to the art, Tassili n’Ajjer is worth exploring for its unique environment. The wind has sculpted the sandstone structures into beautiful, abstract shapes that tower above swathes of sand.
Because of the nearby oasis, this part of the Sahara still boasts a considerable amount of life. Here, you’ll find endangered species of vegetation like Saharan Myrtle and Saharan Cypress. You may even catch a glimpse of a mouflon, a type of wild sheep that’s depicted in some of the early rock art.
----------------------------------------
Title: Timgad
Description: Classical ruins that remember ancient Rome's presence in Africa.
Content: Located in the province of Batna, Timgad was an ancient Roman city built by the Emperor Trajan. It ceased to be inhabited after the 8th century. The triumphal arch, called  the “Arch of Trajan,” survived the test of time, and was finally renovated in 1900. The theater is also in good condition, and is still used for modern music shows. The city was added to UNESCO’s world heritage list in 1982.
----------------------------------------
Title: Assekrem
Description: A century-old stone hermitage overlooks this remote pass in the Hoggar mountains, surrounded by a landscape of eroded volcanic cores.
Content: In the middle of the Sahara lie the Hoggar Mountains, a brutal landscape of basalt buttes erupting from the barren landscape. In the heart of the Hoggar is a dramatic cluster of eroded volcanic cores overlooked by the 9,000-foot high Assekrem Pass.
Part of the Ahaggar National Park, Assekrem is one of the many wonders of southern Algeria. It is located some 50 miles from the city of Tamanrasset.
In 1911 Charles de Foucauld, a French soldier turned missionary, built a crude hermitage at Assekrem. De Foucauld spent most of his time in Tamanrasset, living closely with the Tuareg people and studying their language and culture. In 1916, he was assassinated as a suspected spy. He was beatified in 2005 and the hermitage is still tended today by aging monks from the order of Les Petites Frères de Jésus (the Little Brothers of Jesus), who were inspired by de Foucauld’s life and works.
There is a lodge at Assekrem where visitors can spend the night to take in the stunning views of sunrise and sunset across the brooding monoliths from the plateau just above the pass.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sacred Heart Cathedral of Oran
Description: This former cathedral is now a bustling library packed with students and pigeons.
Content: Colorful mosaic portrayals of Jesus and the icons of the Four Gospels shine out from the facade of the Sacred Heart Cathedral of Oran (Cathédrale du Sacré-Cœur d’Oran). Visitors who enter beneath the grand arch will find the organ, the chancel, and an altar adorned with crucifixes.
But beyond those remaining vestiges, you won’t find anything else relating to Roman Catholic worship. Deconsecrated after Algeria declared independence from France, the secularized site has served as Oran’s public library since 1996. In spite of this, traces of the church’s original function remain and provide a remarkable contrast to the city’s other former religious sites (such as the Great Synagogue, which was converted into the Abdallah Ibn Salam Mosque).
It’s well-worth joining the citizens of Oran who flock to the boulevard and the library to marvel at the mosaic facade and contemplate a structure that represents aspects of Algeria’s 20th-century history in microcosm—just keep your eyes out for pigeons overhead if you venture inside. Instead of religious services and a congregation, you’ll see shelves of books and documents in the chapel niches, and tables of students studying and socializing in what used to be the nave. Wander over to the chancel and apse areas of the ex-church, and you’re liable to encounter pigeons (and their poo).
Of further note is the fact that the cathedral, constructed between 1904 and 1913, was the first church built out of reinforced concrete in the French overseas territories. The altar is, likewise, reinforced concrete and was therefore not blessed during the cathedral’s 1930 consecration as the material is not recognized by canon law. The cathedral also serves as the setting for several poignant scenes in Albert Camus’ novel The Plague.
----------------------------------------
Title: Amguid Crater
Description: One of the best-preserved impact craters on the planet is located in the middle of the Sahara Desert.
Content: In a remote region of the Sahara Desert, an impact crater was punched into the land less than 100,000 years ago. Measuring some 500 meters (1,640 feet) wide and about 70 meters (230 feet) deep, the Amguid Crater is located in southwestern Algeria. On satellite imagery, the white spot of the flat, sandy crater floor is clearly visible; the residue formed by millennia of sporadic rain running into the bowl and evaporating.
The first known record of the Amguid crater in scientific literature was made by the French explorer Roman Karpoff, who noted a possible impact crater from a plane in 1948. The French geologist Jean-Phillippe Lefranc visited the crater in 1969.
The crater is almost perfectly circular, with steep walls and raised rims that are covered with large blocks of sandstone.
Shallow canyons cut through the plateau from east and west and spill out into the Erg Bou Zerafa sand sea to the north. One of the canyon mouths at the waterhole of Aguelman Rahla, has an unusually high concentration of pre-Islamic tombs. Rock art, neolithic tools and other pre-historic relics suggest the entire region was occupied thousands of years ago when the Saharan climate was less arid.
Amguid is the name of the nearest village (and army base) about 100 kilometers (62 miles) to the northeast.
----------------------------------------
Title: Martyrs' Memorial
Description: This massive monument towers over the city as a constant reminder of the lives lost during Algeria's hard-won war for independence.
Content: Opened in 1982 to honor the 20th anniversary of Algeria’s brutal and bloody war for independence, this impressive concrete monument is a testament to the country’s long struggle to throw off its French colonizers.
The memorial rises 302 feet tall and is comprised of three soaring “palm leaves,” each punctuated at the base by a statue of a single Algerian soldier. In the center of the monument sits an eternal flame. The memorial was erected on the site on an old military fort on a hill in Algiers, allowing it to be seen up and down the capital city’s long and winding coastline.
The memorial is free to visit (although soldiers will most likely prevent you from getting close to the eternal flame) and the surrounding plaza is a popular gathering spot. Entrance to the nearby military museum (Musem de l’Armee), which is located at the opposite end of the square, is free to enter and has a wide collection of exhibits that provide more context on Algeria’s complicated relationship with France.
----------------------------------------
Title: Opera d'Alger (Algiers Opera House)
Description: A new landmark that fosters cultural exchange between traditions.
Content: This stunning opera house, a gift from the Chinese government to Algeria, opened to the public in 2016. The huge, rectangular building, reflected by a shallow pool just outside its doors, opens to an ornate greeting hall with floor-to-ceiling windows and a massive spiral. At an impressive 35,000 square meters, the venue can hold 1,400 seated guests.
China and Algeria have a long economic relationship, the roots of which emerged in China’s support for Algeria’s independence struggle in the 1950s. Their continuing alliance is memorialized by the $40 million dollar project that started construction in 2013, just 11 years after the end of Algeria’s civil war. The nearby historic Théâtre National Algérien Mahieddine Bachtarzi, constructed between 1850 and 1853, was also once known as the Algiers Opera House, but is now better known as the National Theater.
The Algiers Opera House hosts festivals, concerts, conferences, and other events. International artists and Algerians alike perform at the venue, including the Symphony Orchestra, the National Ballet and the Andalusia Music Group. This facilitates many opportunities for cultural exchange, such as the U.S. State Department-funded OneBeat Sahara music residency, which recently brought 25 musicians from North Africa and the United States to publicly perform at the opera house as a finale to 12 days of music exchange.
After two pandemic-impacted seasonal closures, the opera house is open for regular programming. Their Ramadan program for April 2022 features about 150 artists collaborating in 17 separate performances over the holy Islamic month alone. Ongoing artistic workshops and operatic training are offered to young people and students looking to engage in the artistic community of Algiers.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Lost City of Heracleion
Description: An ancient city exhumed from the depths of the ocean.
Content: It was barely more than a legend. Appearing in a few rare inscriptions and ancient texts, the city of Thonis-Heracleion was hidden away for thousands of years, submerged deep under the sea. 
After searching for years by screening the vast area of the Abu Qir Bay off the coast of Egypt, French archaeologist Franck Goddio and his team saw a colossal face emerge from the watery shadows. Goddio had finally encountered Thonis-Heracleion, completely submerged 6.5 kilometres off Alexandria’s coast. Among the underwater ruins were 64 ships, 700 anchors, a treasure trove of gold coins, statues standing at 16 feet, and most notably the remains of a massive temple to the god Amun-Gereb, and the tiny sarcophagi for the animals that were brought there as offerings. 
The ruins and artifacts made from granite and diorite are remarkably preserved, and give a glimpse into what was, 2300 years ago, one of the great port cities of the world. The harbor of Thonis-Heracleion (the Egyptian and Greek names of the city) controlled all the trade into Egypt. 
Built around its grand temple, the city was criss-crossed with a network of canals, a kind of ancient Egyptian Venice, and its islands were home to small sanctuaries and homes. Once a grand city, today its history is largely obscured and no one is quite sure how it ended up entirely underwater. 
To learn more visit: www.franckgoddio.org
----------------------------------------
Title: Nilometer
Description: An ancient instrument used to measure the waters of the Nile so Egyptian farmers would know whether to expect famine or flood.
Content: In ancient Egypt, the behavior of the Nile could mean life or death each harvest season. So, long before the Aswan Dam was constructed to manage the flooding of the great river, Egyptians invented an instrument to measure the waters in order to predict the Nile’s behavior: the nilometer.
There were three kinds of nilometers, and examples of all three can still be seen around Egypt. The simplest was a tall column housed in a submerged stone structure called a stilling well. One of these nilometers can be seen on Rhoda (or Rawda) Island in Cairo, an octagonal marble column held in place by a wooden beam at the top that spans the width of the well. The stilling well included a staircase so that priests, who were in charge of monitoring the nilometers, could walk down and examine the column.
Nilometers were used for measuring water levels as early as 5,000 years ago. The nilometer on Rhoda Island dates back to 861, when it was built where an older nilometer had been, based on a design by Afraganus, a famous astronomer. The massive measuring stick had markings on it to indicate where the water level was at any given time, information the priests would use to determine what conditions the future held: drought, which would mean famine; desirable, which would mean just enough overflow to leave good soil for farming; or flood, which could be catastrophic.
Only priests and rulers, whether pharaohs or later, Roman or Arab leaders, were allowed to monitor the nilometers, and their ability to predict the behavior of the Nile was used to impress the common people. (And to determine how much money would be collected in taxes.) This is why so many nilometers were built in temples, where only priests would be able to access the mysterious instrument. 
The nilometer on Rhoda Island is today housed in a modernized building. The conical roof replaced an older dome that was destroyed in 1825 during the French occupation. The interior is ornately carved, and three tunnels that once let water into the stilling well at different levels have been filled in, so visitors can walk all the way down.
Another type of nilometer, like the one that can be seen on Elephantine Island in Aswan, had evenly spaced steps that lead straight down to the Nile, and indicator markings on the walls at different levels for each step. This one was often the first to indicate what conditions to expect, being located near Egypt’s southern border. The third kind, an example of which can be seen at Temple of Kom Ombo, a little further north, brought the water away from the Nile by way of a canal that deposited it into a cistern. And again, the indicating markers were carved into the wall, accessible by staircases for the priests and rulers who predicted the fate of the Egyptian crop.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Temple of Abu Simbel
Description: Ozymandias’ time-keeping temple.
Content: The Great Temple of Abu Simbel was completed in 1244 BCE. It is one of the crowning monuments of Rameses the Great, the pharaoh who would become the model for Percy Shelley’s poem “Ozymandias”: “My name is Ozymandias, king of kings: / Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!”
At Abu Simbel, four colossal statues of Rameses, each 20 meters high, look down upon the desert. But the temple’s greatest secret lies at its heart.
It was built along the axis of the sun, so that twice a year, light would flood into its innermost sanctum. The temple was moved wholesale in the 1960s to accommodate the Aswan High Dam, but its uncanny architecture still functions today. On February 22 and October 22 each year, you may still see the sunlight reach the innermost room of Rameses’ time-keeping temple, as it did over three thousand years ago. There, the sun illuminates three of the four statues waiting there: Ra, Amun, and Rameses himself. Only the fourth statue, of Ptah, the mysterious creator-god, is left in shadow.
UNESCO’s World Heritage Convention was created, in fact, to preserve Abu Simbel. After the Nasser Dam was built, the temple was briefly submerged underwater. A large effort saw it carried out and rebuilt, piece by piece, the large mountain it was carved into included.
----------------------------------------
Title: City of the Dead
Description: An endless sea of white conical domes.
Content: Just outside the central Egyptian city of Minya lies the cemetery Zawiyyet al-Mayyiteen. Dubbed the “City of the Dead,” it is considered one of the world’s largest cemeteries. It is a truly huge necropolis, but more significant than its size is its thought-provoking beauty.
Comprised of innumerable white conical domes, that stretch out across a wide plain, the necropolis appears similar to waves in the sea. Each of the several hundred mud-brick mausolea of the necropolis is topped with a dome. The cemetery stretches for several kilometers and was used by Muslims and Coptic Christians alike.
A couple of rock-cut tombs from the Old Kingdom are found at the edge of the site, as well as a small step pyramid from the early 3rd dynasty. The pyramid is remarkable because it is the only pyramid built on the eastern bank of the Nile.
The necropolis is particularly stunning at sunrise and sunset. However, visitors should be aware that this is a working cemetery and should be respectful and modestly dressed.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hathor Temple
Description: One of the most well-preserved temples of ancient Egypt.
Content: If you’ve heard about the Dendera Light Bulb and want to see the famed relief up close and personal, you will have to visit the underground crypt of Hathor Temple at the Dendera Temple Complex in Qena, Egypt. If you’re looking for a jaw-dropping experience, the beautifully intricate, 2,000-year-old temple is not to be missed.
The Temple of Hathor is one of the most well-preserved temples in all of Egypt. There are three temples to view in the complex: the birthing temple at the front, the temple of Isis behind the main temple, and the main temple dedicated to Hathor. There is also a sacred pool that you can still explore. It’s empty though; sorry, no swimming.
The colors seen throughout the temples are original, and amazingly vibrant considering the inside was once covered in soot from Bedouins and other desert peoples seeking asylum. They would use the temples as shelter, lighting fires for cooking and warmth. Since the temple complex used to be covered halfway in desert sand, it was easy for the soot to accumulate at the top. To show the amount of soot that had to be cleaned, archaeologists chose strips of ceiling in each temple to leave covered in soot as a comparison. The clearing of soot and all the sand burying the temples was tedious work that took years to complete.
The temple complex displays influences from Egyptian, Greek, and Roman rulers. There was also a Coptic Christian church on the premises near the birthing temple at one point. The main temple was built by Ptolemy XII and nearly completed by Queen Cleopatra VII, around 54 to 20 BCE. There is evidence of temples and other structures that date back all the way to 2500 BCE.
Hathor is the Egyptian sky goddess of sexual love, fertility, music, and dancing. It is also said she is the goddess of birth and motherhood. She is often depicted as the counterpart of Horus. In fact, Hathor translates to “House of Horus.” Inside the underground crypt, on the same relief wall as the famed Dendera light bulb (just to the right of it) is the most detailed depiction of Horus discovered to date. Getting to the crypt requires you to crawl on your hands and knees for a stint. Well, maybe not crawl, but entrance requires going down a steep staircase, turning around, getting on your knees and backing through so you don’t hit your head. If you are short, it helps.
The temple is a wondrous marvel to explore. Each of the rooms is as intricately decorated as the Great Vestibule, the front room at the main entrance fronted by 24 columns. The ceiling in the Great Vestibule is a tribute to Nut (Newt), Goddess of the Sky. Beyond are antechambers with crypts, chapel rooms, and a sanctuary. There is a corridor on each side of the second antechamber. The corridor to climb to the top of the temple is a spiral, just as a bird would ascend, while the corridor to leave the roof is a straight path down, just as a bird would dive. This is a tribute to Horus.
At the top of the structure, there is a small temple that was used for rituals to greet the rising sun, as well as another antechamber, called the Chapel of Osiris. Inside this chapel, one of the rooms holds a unique ceiling relief, called the Dendera Zodiac. It is considered the only complete “map” of the ancient Egyptian sky. The one at Hathor Temple is a replica, however. The real Dendera Zodiac is on display at the Louvre in Paris, France.
The birthing temple is also intricately decorated, and reliefs on the side depict the births of gods and Egyptian pharaohs. It is positioned at the front of the complex, across from a display of former statues and partial column pieces found during excavation. The Temple of the Goddess Isis is situated behind the main temple near the sacred pool. It is small and not as decorative, but still worth a look.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Tomb of Nefertari
Description: Known as the Sistine Chapel of Egypt, this tomb houses some of the most well-preserved paintings in Egypt.
Content: The vast array of paintings inside the tomb of Nefertari, the first of the Great Royal Wives of Ramesses the Great, look as if they were painted just days ago. The vivid colors give visitors a clear idea of what some of the tombs and temples in the area looked like during antiquity. The tomb shows off a different level of detail compared to the other tombs found in Valley of the Kings or even the rest of the Valley of the Queens.
----------------------------------------
Title: White Desert
Description: An alien landscape of chalk-rock in the Egyptian desert.
Content: Just a few hours from the bursting metropolis of Cairo lies a desert that will make you feel like you’ve landed on the surface of the moon.
Formed by centuries of erosion and sandstorms, these unique calcium rock formations crop up across the landscape like great abstract statues. Some that resemble food have been given names like “mushroom” and “ice-cream cone,” while others have inspired more grandiose designations, such as “the Monolith” and “Inselberg.”
Arguably the most characteristic of these peculiar natural formations is the famed “chicken and tree” set, also called “chicken and mushroom,” or, better yet, “chicken and atomic bomb.” Only in The White Desert will you encounter such a bizarre and awe-inspiring natural museum of chalk-rock.
Many people opt to spend a night camping in the desert with Bedouin guides, where they can observe the changing faces of chickens and mushrooms and monoliths as the bright sun of the afternoon sinks into a shadowy dusk. As the sun goes down, the calcium sea seems to reflect all the fuchsias and oranges of the sky. And while any night under the stars of the Western Desert is an experience not soon forgotten, the lucky few that catch a full moon will witness the desert giving off a ghostly, iridescent glow.
----------------------------------------
Title: Colossi of Memnon
Description: These Egyptian statues have survived for 3,400 years and were an acoustic wonder of the ancient world.
Content: Since 1350 B.C., these ancient Egyptian statues have loomed over the Theban Necropolis. Though battered by more than 3,400 years of scorching desert sun and sporadic Nile floods, they’ve captivated the imaginations of curious travelers for millennia.
The twin colossi (which no longer resemble twins) depict the Pharaoh Amenhotep III, who ruled during the 18th Dynasty. They once flanked the entrance to his lost mortuary temple, which at its height was the most lavish temple in all of Egypt. Their faded side panels depict Hapy, god of the nearby Nile.
Though centuries of floods reduced the temple to no more than looted ruins, these statues have withstood any disaster nature throws their way. In 27 B.C., an earthquake shattered the northern colossus, collapsing its top and cracking its lower half. But strangely, the damaged statue did more than merely survive the catastrophe: After the earthquake, it also found its voice.
At dawn, when the first ray of desert sun spilled over the baked horizon, the shattered statue would sing. Its tune was more powerful than pleasant; a fleeting, otherworldly song that evoked mysterious thoughts of the divine. By 20 BC, esteemed tourists from around the Greco-Roman world were trekking across the desert to witness the sunrise acoustic spectacle. Scholars including the likes of Pausanias, Publius, and Strabo recounted tales of the statue’s strange sound ringing through the morning air. Some say it resembled striking brass, while others compared it to the snap of a breaking lyre string.
The unearthly song is how these ancient Egyptian statues wound up with a name borrowed from ancient Greece. According to Greek mythology, Memnon, a mortal son of Eos, the goddess of Dawn, was slain by Achilles. Supposedly, the eerie wail echoing from the cracked colossus’ chasm was him crying to his mother each morning. (Modern scientists believe early morning heat caused dew trapped within the statue’s crack to evaporate, creating a series of vibrations that echoed through the thin desert air.)
Sadly, well-intentioned Romans silenced the song in the third century. After visiting the storied statues and failing to hear their ephemeral sounds, Emperor Septimius Severus, reportedly attempting to gain favor with the oracular monument, had the fractured statue repaired. His reconstructions, in addition to disfiguring the statue so the fixtures no longer looked like identical twins, robbed the colossus of its famous voice and rendered its song a lost acoustic wonder of the ancient world.
----------------------------------------
Title: End of the World Cinema
Description: An abandoned outdoor movie theater in the Sinai desert.
Content: As you walk on the sand to get to the eeriest theater in the world, the scene feels distinctly post-apocalyptic. This deserted outdoor cinema has yet to see its premiere; its 700 weathered and worn theater seats languish amid the howl of the desert wind.
At the southern tip of the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt, the abandoned movie theater, dubbed the “End of the World Cinema,” is a silent and bizarre view. It was built by Frenchman Diynn Eadel in the late 1990s, but suffered a power cut on what was supposed to be its premiere night. No one knows what went wrong, but some say the local authorities weren’t thrilled by the prospect of a movie theater in the middle of the desert and were the ones responsible for the generator’s malfunction.
At the time, Eadel told a visiting photojournalist that Jurassic Park would be the first movie to play at his Seventh Art Theater. According to the cinema’s introductory flyer, it was meant “to prove that tourism is not necessarily a destructive element and that the Great Theater of Nature can reconcile us with the elements.”
However, Eadel’s dream of a theater in the middle of the desert of Egypt remains unrealized, with no further plans of reviving the Sinai cinema. Today, the only audience rides motorbikes through the desert to see the rows of abandoned seats, with their aura of possibility and decay, backdropped by the Sinai hills painted on a screen of a sky full of stars. 
Update: The cinema was looted and badly damaged. 
Update April 2018: The area has been closed to tourists by the Egyptian Government.
----------------------------------------
Title: Desert Breath
Description: A massive work of modern art that appears to be a crop circle in the middle of the desert.
Content: Rising out of a flat expanse in the Egyptian desert, the earthen cones of Desert Breath seem like giant, alien ant hills, but they are simply art.
Completed in 1997 after a number of years under construction, the installation consists of a fractal spiral of conical protrusions and alternately conical depressions. From the ground, the full scope of the project is hard to see, as the site appears to be a string of increasingly large sand piles, with the matching pits from which they were dug lurking nearby.
However, when seen from the air, the full effect of the piece becomes clear as the 89 cones and 89 matching depressions spiral out from one another in two geometrically precise arms that increase in diameter the farther they get from the central axis. At the center where the two strings meet, a cone rises up out of a large central pit which was originally filled with water. Despite being otherwise unadorned, the mathematical precision on display at the site creates a sense of wonder.  
Desert Breath was purpose-built to slowly erode back into the swept sands it was created from and in the decade and a half since its construction, it has begun to do just that. The piece may not be as large as it was when it was installed, but this work of art is still worth a visit for anyone wishing to see an Egyptian monument that isn’t quite so ancient.
----------------------------------------
Title: Pyramid of Djoser
Description: This ancient structure is widely thought to be the oldest intact pyramid in the world.
Content: Built as a tomb for the pharaoh Djoser (or Zoser), the Djoser Pyramid was constructed between 2630 BC and 2611 BC in Saqqara, Egypt. Although it is considered the world’s oldest intact large-scale stone monument, the ancient structure is often overshadowed by Egypt’s most famous pyramids.
The Djoser Pyramid stands 197 feet high and was built using 11.6 million cubic feet of stone and clay. Imhotep—a doctor, priest, and sculptor, among other titles and talents—is widely attributed as the pyramid’s architect. Initially, the structure was designed as a traditional, flat-roofed tomb called a mastaba, but Djoser wanted something bigger, something grander.
So tradition was put aside for innovation, and in the span of Djoser’s 19-year rule the pyramid expanded to its current six layers, with a height that made it the largest building of its time. The step pyramid’s unique structure was also an important architectural advancement: The famous pyramids of Giza, for example, are the result of techniques seen practiced here.
The pyramid was part of a larger 40-acre complex containing a courtyard, temples, and chapels, all enclosed inside a 30-foot wall. The entrance to the complex, as well as 13 fake doors, is built into the wall. The complex also includes a number of building facades, all of which served ritual purposes.
The pharaoh’s burial chambers are located deep within the pyramid, along with those of his 11 daughters. The burial chamber is part of the pyramid’s winding, maze-like series of tunnels, which researchers think may have been designed to prevent theft (although the pyramid was eventually looted).
Sadly, these protective tunnels may actually be part of the reason for the pyramid’s deterioration. Without conservation, experts fear that the 3.5 miles (5.5 kilometers) of tunnels could collapse, taking the historic monument with it. Efforts to conserve the building have been controversial, as a company tasked with the restoration has been accused of doing the opposite: it was claimed that the restoration work was actually further damaging the pyramid.
Google reviews in 2023 indicate that once again tourists can ener the Pyramid of Djoser. Visitors are also welcome to stand in awe in front of this architectural feat and see what has been called “a revolutionary conception that would influence the entire history of Egyptian architecture.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Monastery of Saint Simon
Description: The massive cave church of Cairo's Zabbaleen community is one of the largest Christian churches in the Middle East.
Content: Large Christian communities are not abundant in Muslim-dominated Egypt. One of the more populous groups is the garbage scavenging Zabbaleen, who have retained their Coptic beliefs and established the largest Christian church in the Middle East at the Monastery of Saint Simon.
The Zabbaleen (meaning literally “garbage collectors”) village at the base of the Mokattam cliffs began around 1969 when the Cairo governor decided to move all of the garbage collectors to a single settlement. The garbage collectors were largely Coptic Christians and as their numbers continued to grow over the years the need for a centralized church began to grow. In 1975, the first Christian church was built in the village but after a large fire broke out nearby, work began on a monastery that was built right into the cliffside. 
The Monastery of Saint Simon was the result of this new project. Simon the Tanner was a craftsman saint who lived during the 10th century and the cave church that was dedicated to him seems as though it might last for 10 more. Using a pre-existing cave and the slope that led into it, the current monastery seats 2,000 people around a central pulpit. Other nearby caves have also been built into separate church spaces and all of them have been linked to create a massive Christian complex in the heart of garbage city.
Since tourism through the scavenger’s village is not a thriving industry, reaching the Monastery of Saint Simon is no small feat, yet as the largest Christian church within a handful of countries, hundreds of thousands of people make the pilgrimage each year.
----------------------------------------
Title: Al-Andalus Garden
Description: A preserved oasis with traditional Andalusian-style architecture and beautiful views of the Nile.
Content: Visitors to Cairo likely pass this unique garden park on the bank of the Nile dozens of times when traveling to reach the Gezira Sporting Club, the Cairo Tower, or downtown Zamalek. But the park is hidden behind high walls, keeping it a peaceful oasis within the crowded city.
Built by Zulfugar Pasha in 1929 as a gift for his wife, this botanical-style garden on Gezira Island in the neighborhood of Zamalek is special among the parks in Cairo. The architect originally designed the landscape to be part of the royal mansion of Khedive Ismail, and its former grandeur can still be felt today.
The most unique aspect of the park are the preserved old structures designed in the traditional Andalusian architectural style, based on designs from Moorish Spain. The lush greenery is studded with colorful mosaic benches and steps surrounding a large fountain.
There are many interesting statues, depicting Pharaohs, lions, and the famous Egyptian poet Ahmed Shawky, the “Prince of Poets,” who was known for his love poems. Beautiful panoramic views of the Nile, and the city across, add to the already romantic atmosphere of the landscape. It’s a wonderful respite from the busy streets of Cairo, harkening back to a former era of the city.
----------------------------------------
Title: Cairo's City of the Dead
Description: In Egypt's expanding metro area, many of the neighbors are dead.
Content: Just outside of Cairo, this City of the Dead used to house only corpses dating back to the 7th century. Created as an Arabic cemetery during the conquest of Egypt, the necropolis has developed into one of Egypt’s worst slums where the dead and living coexist in morbid neighborliness.
20 million people live in Cairo’s metro area, making it one of the largest cities in the entire world. It also has a massive population living in abject poverty, which has forced many people into the City of the Dead. Stretching for four miles on the outskirts of Cairo, the row housing for the deceased has evolved into a deathly slum.
As people moved out of agricultural centers, or were displaced by natural disasters, they took up residences in old mausoleums, and around the tombs of the necropolis. In total, 500,000 people occupy the necropolis, filling the gaps around the final resting places of 7th century Egyptians. Although there are plans to relocate people out of the living cemetery, the population has grown so large that there is almost nowhere to move residents. Like so many other slums across the world, the City of the Dead is greatly populated by children, who must face fears and live in and around tombs, and make do with their morbid surroundings.
----------------------------------------
Title: Wadi al-Hitan (Valley of the Whales)
Description: Egyptian treasure trove of fossils documenting the whale's transition from land mammal to sea creature.
Content: Few sites in the world speak of an evolutionary tale as rich and captivating as that of Wadi al-Hitan, Egypt’s “Whale Valley.” There, amid a wind-sculpted landscape of sand and rocks, lies a large collection of the most unexpected of animal remains—whale fossils.
To be exact, the scattered bones belong to a long-extinct suborder of whales known as archaeoceti. What really sets these ancient creatures apart from your ordinary, modern-day cetacean is one odd, yet profoundly important, anatomical difference—hind legs. This critical deviation in the fossil record of whales is the basis for the notion that the massive seafaring beasts we know today began their existence as land-based animals.
But since their discovery in 1902, the fossils of Wadi al-Hitan have tended to raise more questions than they’ve answered. While the hundreds of archaeocete skeletons provide a rare and valuable snapshot of whales in the final stages of losing their hind limbs and transitioning to a marine existence, evolutionary biologists are still left puzzled over the identity of the whale’s earliest ancestor.
Similarities in tooth shape led to the long-held belief that whales were related to mesonychids, carnivorous hoofed mammals that closely resembled wolves. It wasn’t until 2005 that a team of American and French scientists finally discovered the missing link between whales and their closest relative, the hippopotamus. This discovery, supported by another collection of cetacean fossils located in Pakistan, placed the whale in the different taxonomic group of artiodactyls, which includes such unexpected relatives as camels, pigs, and giraffes.
Although the fossils at Wadi al-Hitan are certainly not the oldest in the world, their sheer number and remarkable preservation (even some stomach contents are still intact!) make them invaluable to paleontologists and evolutionary scientists. For this reason, Egypt’s “Whale Valley” was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2005.
The justification behind this honor is even more apparent when considering the diversity of fossils seen at Wadi al-Hitan. Aside from the impressive archaeocete fossils, the largest of which measures 21 meters in length, fossils of other early animals such as sharks, crocodiles, and turtles are also found at the site. Wadi al-Hitan may be hard to reach, typically receiving only 1,000 visitors each year, but for the few fortunate enough to get there, an astounding oasis documenting millions of years of coastal marine life awaits.
The Atlas Obscura Podcast is a short, daily celebration of all the world’s strange and wondrous places. Check out this episode about Wadi al-Hitan.
----------------------------------------
Title: Unfinished Obelisk
Description: The largest known Ancient Egyptian obelisk.
Content: Around the Upper Egyptian city of Aswan are several ancient stone quarries, which were the source of Ancient Egypt’s finest granite. The Northern Quarries of Aswan holds the remains of the Unfinished Obelisk.
Had it have ever been erected, this obelisk would have been the largest one of Ancient Egypt and would have reached a stunning height of 42 meters. The largest finished obelisk, the Lateran Obelisk is 10 meters shorter than the Unfinished Obelisk, and today stands in Rome, Italy. Although not the largest obelisk, it is nevertheless the largest known monolith of Ancient Egypt, and one of the largest in the world, with an estimated weight of 1,200 tons.
The work on the Unfinished Obelisk had been abandoned due to clearly visible cracks that appeared in the granite. The huge structure, which is partly connected to the parent rock, has been left in situ. The obelisk, together with several worker’s marks and rock carvings, provides a rare insight into the working techniques of Ancient Egypt. Virtually nothing is known about which pharaoh ordered the Obelisk and where it was supposed to be erected.
----------------------------------------
Title: Acacus Mountains
Description: Landscape of bizarrely shaped desert mountains and innumerable rock carvings.
Content: Golden sand dunes cover the ground and cling to the sides of the basaltic mountain range that rises abruptly out of the flat Sahara desert. Forces of nature have always shaped this place, clearly visible in the sand that piles in every rock niche and side canyon of the mountain range, and seemingly embrace the rocks of the terrain. A millennia of desert winds and flashfloods have carved the mountains into bizarre shapes, with innumerable natural arches spanning the foot of the mountains, the largest of which reaches an astonishing height of 150 meters.
But it is not the mountains, nor the scenery for which this place is known. Visitors and scientists alike flock to one of Libya’s most remote corners for the numerous pictographs that are found all over the mountains. These images are found seemingly everywhere – at the base of the mountains, under overhanging rocks, in mountain caves, and in the many canyons of the Acacus Mountains.
The pictographs depict animals, hunting scenes, and social gatherings. However, they are not merely prehistoric paintings. The date of their origin can roughly be put into four different time periods.
The oldest images, from the so-called Wild Fauna Period (12,000 – 6000 BC), were created when the Sahara was covered in a plentiful savannah, with Elephants and Giraffes roaming the wide plains. During this period, carvings depicting those animals were scrawled across the desert cave walls.
The Round Head Period (8000 – 6000 BC), named after the images of rather formless bodies in the depictions of humans, forms a transition period between the age of Hunter-Gatherers and the creation of permanent settlements. The Pastoral Period (5500 – 2000 BC) followed, during which the climate of the Sahara grew much more arid. Human figures dominating and taming the forces of nature were painted during this period, including depictions of domesticated cattle and social festivities.
Horse and chariot depictions majorly date from the Horse Period (1000 BC – AD 1), during which means of transport made a leap forward, allowing the beginning of large Trans-Continental trade routes in Africa. The final period is called the Camel Period (200 BC – present), during which the Sahara finally became the arid desert that it is today.
No single culture or civilization can claim responsibility for the rock art, rather it was most likely a continued tradition among the people of the region, which was set off by the mountains’ earliest inhabitants. The cultures that followed these first settlers, the Tuareg and the Garamantes people, adapted this tradition and created their own images.
Over a timespan of 14 millennia, the climate of the region has dramatically changed. Each change, altered the landscape and forced its inhabitants to adapt. The natural forces that have shaped this place are visible in the mountains. The societal changes that followed are visible in the depictions of the rock carvings. Both nature and humans created an astonishing place, in which its history can be read like a book.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ghadames
Description: A beautiful oasis town dating back to the Roman period still serves as reprieve from the brutal summer sun in Libya.
Content: A tad less than 300 miles away from Tripoli there exists an ancient getaway, an oasis made of mud, lime, and the trunks of palms. Covered alleyways and heat reflecting, creme-colored walls weave in and out of grottos and lead to the old town spring water pool. This pre-Saharan city is Ghadames, also known as the ‘pearl of the desert’.
While none of the buildings from the protohistoric Berber period or the time of Roman domination still stand, the architectural style distinguishes Ghadames from the surrounding pre-Saharan cities. The houses cluster into a rough circle, the outer walls facing the edges of the city creating a fortified wall around the entire settlement.
Inside the walls, the houses utilize different floors for different needs, one for storing goods, another for family living, and the covered alleyways for traveling around the city protected from the blistering desert sun, creating the feel of underground passageways. At the top, open-air terraces are reserved for the women only.
Considered the old part of town, new housing has been built outside of the lime-washed walls, however many of the 10,000 residents of this historic oasis return when the heat becomes unbearable, as those walls still provide more relief from the relentless heat than anywhere else.
----------------------------------------
Title: Qasr al-Haj
Description: Fortress-like granary, continually in use for more than nine centuries.
Content: Berber architecture is probably one of the most evocative architectural styles in the world. The simplicity of the structures merge with the harsh landscape of the Sahara desert to create a timeless beauty. Some Berber structures in neighbouring Tunisia became world-famous after George Lucas included them in his Star Wars movies.
The Qasr al-Haj is arguably the most stunning piece of Berber architecture in Libya. Other than its name suggests (literally translated: Fortress of al-Haj), the structure is neither a fortress, nor a fortified village. The building is a storage facility, created to store the harvests of the semi-nomadic and partly settled people of the region.
It is a circular building, featureless from the outside, with a main gate that leads to the large courtyard inside. Surrounding the courtyard are 114 cave-like storage rooms, arranged in several levels. The lowest level, which partially lies underground, is used to store olive oil, while the upper levels are mainly used for barley and wheat. At the side of the main gate, a staircase leads to the top, where a walk completes a full circle around the top of the structure.
In a region of limited crops, granaries like this shelter the harvest from animals, thieves and weather extremes. The Qasr al-Haj was built in the 12th century by Sheikh Abu Jatla, who rented the storage rooms to several parties in exchange for a small amount of barley and wheat, which he then distributed among the poor.
Since the building is still in use, visitors are encouraged not to enter the storage rooms without the guidance of the caretaker, or the permission from the owners. As of October 2011, it remains unclear, whether the 2011 Libyan Civil War damaged Qasr al-Haj.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gaberoun Oasis
Description: A deserted Bedouin village lines the shores of this stunning desert oasis.
Content: This brilliant blue-green gem of a lake, surrounded by golden sand as far as the eye can see, looks like a small pocket of island paradise hidden among the dunes of the Sahara Desert. Palm trees fringe the water, and the ruins of an abandoned village dot one corner of the shore.
A Bedouin tribe once lived along the Gaberoun Oasis (also spelled Gabroon, Gabraun, and Gabr Awhn). They fished for saltwater crustaceans, little worm-like creatures that live within the lake. But they couldn’t rely on the lake itself for drinking water, the most precious desert treasure. Instead, they had to dig beneath the sand around its perimeter to search for the same underground springs that feed the trees.
The government relocated the entire tribe to a newly built village in the 1980s. The ruins of their old settlement remain, left to bake beneath the scorching sun.
A ramshackle tourist camp, complete with a handful of sleeping huts and a small market, keeps a sporadic trickle of human life flowing into the otherwise abandoned oasis. Those who do visit like to swim in the lake; its salinity makes it a pleasant place to float, especially since the surface is strangely chilly. The water’s temperature gets hotter the deeper you dive.
----------------------------------------
Title: Waw an Namus
Description: Surrounded by a smudge of dark earth, this isolated volcano sits in stark contrast to the surrounding Sahara.
Content: “Seen from space, few other dormant volcanoes look as exotic and spectacular as Waw an Namus,” says NASA’s Earth Observatory. From high above, the volcano is clear to see in the Sahara. It’s surrounded by a smudge of dark basaltic ash and tephra, which extends between six and 12 miles around the central caldera in stark contrast to the surrounding desert. And inside the caldera lie three glinting lakes surrounded by flecks of green.
Approaching by foot, visitors to this remote location first walk through the moonscape of the ash and tephra. At the heart of this peculiar landscape is the two-mile-wide, 330-feet-deep caldera, with a 460-feet-high post-caldera scoria cone near its center. Once at the caldera rim, a strange sight awaits: three lakes, and a few smaller bodies of water, lie on the floor of the caldera, surrounded by palms, reeds, and swamp vegetation.
Much of the water within the caldera is warm and saline, but some bodies of freshwater do exist. Waw an Namus, therefore, has long been an important stop for caravans traveling across this otherwise parched and isolated part of the Sahara.
But Waw an Namus isn’t the most inviting of campgrounds for one particular reason: mosquitoes, and lots of them. The name itself translates to “Crater of Mosquitos,” and visitors are well-advised to camp outside the caldera unless they are well prepared with mosquito nets and a serious supply of repellent. The mosquitoes of Waw an Namus don’t often have the chance to feed on fresh blood, so when they do, they don’t hold back.
Questions remain regarding the formation of Waw an Namus. Volcanism in the Sahara isn’t fully understood and various theories exist to explain the presence of volcanoes like Waw an Namus. Its age, too, is open to debate. The central cone looks relatively young, suggesting it may have been formed as recently as a few thousand years ago. The arid climate of the region, however, may be masking the volcano’s true age.
----------------------------------------
Title: Leptis Magna
Description: Magnificent Roman ruins lie vulnerable to destruction on the edge of the Mediterranean.
Content: In what is now Libya, Leptis Magna was once the shining star of the Roman Empire.
As far as ruins go, the city still stands out as a superior example of Rome’s considerable advances in urban planning and architecture. Despite existing in an unstable nation and sporadically under threat of being caught in the crossfires of civil unrest, it has survived as one of the most complete set of Roman ruins standing.
Originally a Phoenician and Berber foundation, the city became part of the grandiose Roman Empire under Tiberius. Under the reign of Lucius Septimius Severus in 193, Leptis peaked as the third greatest city on the entire continent of Roman Africa. Unfortunately, like so many other Roman cities, the vibrant metropolis was doomed by its growth and ingenuity outgrowing its means, and by mid-4th century, the once glorious city by the sea was heavily abandoned, easily sacked by invaders, and in constant threat of destruction due to war and civil unrest. 
While the ruins still stand regally against the sky, that threat has yet to pass. As recently as 2011, civil war has found its way to Leptis Magna, a ready-made bunker,  attractive as a place to hide weapons, shield military vehicles, and keep backs to the sea. Despite being under UNESCO’s protective wing, its vulnerability to rebels has prompted NATO to make no promises that it will remain off limits from air strikes if intervention is necessary. Currently the site is quiet, and the empty city sleeps.
----------------------------------------
Title: Arch of Marcus Aurelius
Description: This triumphal arch is the only fully standing structure that remains from Roman-era Oea.
Content: In the mid-second century, the coastal town of Oea (now modern-day Tripoli in Libya) began an architectural shift to better reflect its recently acquired status as a Roman colonia. Monumental Roman-style structures were erected in what is now Tripoli’s old town, bringing a distinctly Roman identity to a settlement founded by the Phoenicians and ruled by Greeks and Carthaginians before the Romans arrived.
Unlike the other two ancient cities of Roman Tripolis—Sabratha and Leptis Magna—Oea has been continuously inhabited. Over the centuries, many of its older buildings have been quarried for material or built over and destroyed, leaving scant traces of the city’s Roman past. The most notable exception is the Arch of Marcus Aurelius, a fascinating triumphal arch that would have been central to the town’s Roman identity.
Thanks to a four-line inscription on the arch, we know it was built in honor of Emperor Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus. Lucius Verus was the adoptive brother of Marcus Aurelius, and the triumphal arch was erected in large part to commemorate his recent victories over the Parthians.
Completed around 165 and built almost entirely from marble, the arch has a rectangular footprint measuring about 41 feet by 32 feet. It is a quadrifrons (or tetrapylon) arch, being of cubic shape with a gate on each of the four sides.
The arch was placed in a prominent position near the harbor and at the crossroads leading out to Odea’s neighboring towns. As such, new arrivals, especially important visitors, would have passed through the arch when arriving in Oea.
At the time of its construction, the Arch of Marcus Aurelius would have been one of the most elaborately decorated arches in North Africa. It has been heavily eroded over the years, with some parts so damaged that the original features have been lost. But many of the most interesting features can still be identified, especially on the northwest face.
Among the decorative acanthus leaves, vines, and grapes etched into the pillars are various figures, including representations of captured barbarians. Among the prisoners are a male with hands bound, a seated woman, and a young boy who seems to be crying. The most important figures, however, are those of the city’s patron deities, Apollo and Minerva. Apollo is represented in a chariot drawn by two griffins, while Minerva, bearing helmet and shield, stands in a chariot pulled by a pair of sphinxes.
Four notably empty niches are also embedded within the arch. These likely once held statues of both Emperor Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus. Statues have been found in excavations around the fringes of the arch, one of which has been identified as Lucius Verus. In terms of size, it would have fit quite nicely inside one of the now vacant niches.
----------------------------------------
Title: Atiq Mosque
Description: Early Islamic mosque with several strange conical domes.
Content: Two palm trunks mark the entrance to one of Libya’s most beautiful mosques. The whitewashed mud-brick structure dates from the 7th century, and greeted Muslim pilgrims and caravan routes that crossed this area for a centuries. During the heyday of the Sahara caravan trade routes, the oasis city of Awjilah was an important stop on the way to the Cyrenaican coast, bringing travelers from across the ancient world to the mosque.
Nine doors grant access to the house of worship, which lead into a labyrinth of pillars and arches inside, covering an area of more than 400 m². However, the outside of the building is even more remarkable and features 21 snow-white conical beehive domes. The beehives dominate the skyline of the old town of Awjilah, which was lovingly restored in 2006, after the city became one of the most convenient spots to view the solar eclipse of March 2006.
As of October 2011 it remains unclear whether the 2011 Libyan Civil War damaged Awjilah, or its ancient mosque.
----------------------------------------
Title: Wheelus Air Base
Description: 70 years of foreign military influence on the shores of Tripoli, Libya.
Content: Between its construction in 1923, and the end of the Cold War in 1991, Wheelus Air Base belonged to five major world powers. Following the base’s ownership neatly parallels world history’s major events, and follows the evolution of power throughout the 20th century. After invading in 1911, Italy took control of Libya as a colony, and opened the air base in 1923. During World War II, another axis power, the Nazis took over the air base as a strategic post in the Mediterranean. As the war turned, the British seized control of the base in 1943, and began a long period of Western influence in Libya.
Following the war, Wheelus was handed over to the United States. America immediately jumped on the opportunity to hold a base in a location strategic to North Africa, the Middle East and Europe. Shortly after taking control, there were 5,000 air force troops deployed at the base, and Wheelus became known as “Little America.”
While the Americans controlled the base, some Libyan forces were also deployed there, working side by side on their aircraft. One of these men was Muammar Gaddafi, who before instituting his own brand of strict religious rule, was a well-known playboy, who would drink and carouse with the Americans stationed at Wheelus.
Unfortunately, Gaddafi’s flirtation with the west ended in 1969, when the Americans were given notice and promptly asked to leave Wheelus Air Base. Strangely enough, after finally gaining power and independence, Gaddafi invited the Soviet Union to Wheelus, where they were stationed until the end of the Cold War.
Today, Wheelus Air Base is known as Mitiga International Airport, and is no longer home to any foreign army.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mauritania Railway
Description: Climb atop one of the world's longest and heaviest trains for an unbelievable journey across the Sahara Desert.
Content: There are some train rides that you’ll never forget. Riding Mauritania’s Iron Ore Train is definitely one of those. It doesn’t matter if you’re eastbound or westbound—what matters is that this train ride truly embodies the idiom that it’s all about the journey, not the destination.
First, a few facts: Operating since 1963, the iron ore train covers 437 miles (704 kilometers) on its journey across the Sahara Desert from Nouadhibou, on the coast, to Zouérat, an iron mine in the center of Mauritania. Consisting of more than 200 carriages and three or four locomotives, the train can reach over a mile (about 2.5 to three kilometers) in length and carry 17,000 tons of iron ore, making it one of the longest and heaviest trains in the world.
But iron isn’t the only thing this beast of a train typically carries. Additional passenger carriages can be attached to the train, but most often, passengers sit on top of the ore. The train can carry road vehicles as well, and if you are self-driving, you have to make arrangements for your vehicle to tag along for the ride. Once your vehicle is on the train, you can decide to travel inside it, on top of the ore, or a combination of the two.
Hitchhiking on this train and sitting atop a bed of iron ore is not an easy ride, but it can be the train ride of a lifetime. The train runs through one of the harshest environments on earth. It’s sun-scorched during the day and bitterly cold at night, and you’d better prepare for both, as there is no shelter on the train, unless you brought your own vehicle to hunker down in. If you’re wondering about toilets, the answer is no: there aren’t any. There is also no way to stock up on your food supplies.
Along the way, you can expect to see rocks, sand, shrubs, camels, goats, and solitary ramshackle huts. Oh, and dust—lots of dust. Once your eyes get used to the dust and adjust to the environment, you can start appreciating the different shades and hues that different kinds of sand can take from a certain angle and in a certain light. Once it gets dark, you can usually see the Milky Way stretching across the night sky.
Walking around along the train is allowed in the sense that no-one is checking, but it can be dangerous as there are no barriers, emergency brakes, or, in fact, safety measures of any kind. Starting off is a painfully slow affair, with carriages slamming into one another and jolting everyone in or on them. Violent jolts can reoccur unexpectedly throughout the journey.
The train does not make any official stops from Nouadhibou to Choum, but the train does stop for prayers. Some passengers will get off the train to perform the ritual and get back on as soon as the train starts jolting forward.
----------------------------------------
Title: Richat Structure
Description: A geological bull's-eye visible from outer space.
Content: In the midst of the vast, vacant Sahara desert, just outside of Ouadane, Mauritania, lies a 30-mile wide geological oddity known the Richat Structure, sometimes called the “Eye of Africa.” From space, this natural curiosity forms a distinct and unmistakable bull’s-eye that once served as a geographical landmark for early astronauts as they passed over the Sahara.
Once thought to be an impact crater due to its circularity, the unusual formation is now widely believed to have been caused by the erosion of a geological dome formed by pressure from a bulb of molten magma below. The desert floor ‘blistered,’ and as the layers of rock were pushed up and fractured, millennia of weathering gradually leveled them flat again, exposing the structure’s distinctive concentric rings.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Libraries of Chinguetti
Description: Five ancient libraries, little changed for centuries, preserve a medieval archive of Quranic lore and civic documents
Content: Situated on the bleak Adrar plateau, the city of Chinguetti contains some of the world’s most important Quranic texts amid its simple earthen libraries. 
Established around 777 AD, Chinguetti became an important trading outpost on the Timbuktu caravan route to the Mediterranean. At the same time it became a gathering place for Islamic pilgrims on their way to Mecca. With the steady traffic of holy people through the city, a large, stone mosque was built and small libraries were founded to contain the growing number of religious texts left behind. Preserving the tradition of trading and passing down such holy writings, most of the original Chinguetti libraries exist in largely the same state as when they were deposited. 
Today there are five such libraries left in Chinguetti containing some 1,300 Quranic manuscripts, as well as civil records including contracts, bills of sale, and legal judgments. The dry desert air and dedication of generations of custodians have helped preserve the fragile parchments, often rolled inside bamboo tubes.
On occasion, the crumbling texts are gingerly inspected by scholars who still visit the site to study Islamic Law. Preservationists have attempted to relocate the collections or set up restoration programs locally, but the libraries’ private owners resist. UNESCO has awarded Chinguetti and other nearby ancient settlements World Heritage status, and efforts are being made to save the city and its libraries from neglect.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ouadane Mosque
Description: This remarkably well-preserved mosque stands amid an 11th-century caravansary.
Content: When Ouadane was founded is a matter of contention, but it’s generally agreed the city rose to prominence in the 11th century. Alongside Chinguetti, Tichitt, and Oualata, Ouadane became an important trading and religious center along one of the most important trans-Saharan routes. The walls surrounding old Ouadane suggest it was a ksar, or fortified village.
Buildings in the ksar that have not already crumbled to the ground are in a precarious state of disrepair, with one notable exception: the old mosque. Built in the 15th century, the mosque received some restoration attention without detracting from its ancient charm. The structure itself is relatively small, but the uncovered rounded rows of horseshoe arches create an intriguing and at times disorienting architectural feature. 
Like all mosques, the old mosque in Ouadane has a minaret, but unlike most mosques, this minaret is neither tall nor narrow. With a square base of 4 or 5 meters on each side, and no higher than a two-story house, this minaret is reminiscent of a turret built for military purposes. Yet, the shape and size of this structure may be the reason why it lasted so long. 
The arches, yard, and minaret are all built with stones found locally, with traces of clay plastering that was applied to fortify the structure in the 19th century.
----------------------------------------
Title: Abandoned Resort
Description: The beehive-like buildings of this abandoned resort reside near the border of Mauritania and Senegal.
Content: If savannah is the transitional ecosystem between desert and forest, the city of Kaédi is located in a region where desert and savannah meet. This is the Gorgol region of southern Mauritania. Located just north of the Senegal River, this is one of the few places in Mauritania where agriculture is a possible, but it is a far cry from classifying as a fertile area. Vast arid expanses punctuated by tiny villages dominate the landscape for hundreds of kilometers along the river.
One of the major settlements along this strip of land is Kaédi, a small city with a few intersecting roads stemming from the market. Of note, in 1989 a regional hospital was built in Kaédi by the renowned Italian architect Fabrizio Carola. The hospital featured domed circular structures connected by vaulted corridors that made the complex look like the product of a futuristic dream. 
This structure must have inspired a brave entrepreneur to build a resort in the same style a few kilometers outside of Kaédi. Surrounded by nothing but spectacular landscape, this resort was open until 2017. The family from across the road now “keep an eye” on this abandoned resort, but they can offer no information about the resort other than the date of its closure.
All the red-brick domed units of the complex are connected by narrow vaulted passageways. Each unit is endowed with one or two small glassless windows that can be closed with a shutter. Each unit has a set of three-inch by four-inch glass blocks on its dome to let light in. These thick glass blocks are so effective at capturing and dispersing sunlight within the unit that they can be mistaken for spotlights. In spite of the high summer temperatures, the structure remains cool throughout the day.
----------------------------------------
Title: Port de Pêche
Description: Thousands of colorful pirogues showcase ingenious craftsmanship at the largest fishermen port in Nouakchott.
Content: No matter what time of the day or what day of the week, Port de Pêche is always hectic. There are always fishing boats setting off and others returning, with the daily catch quickly unloaded and taken the market on donkey-drawn carts.
But the real eye candy are the throngs of pirogues lying idle on the sand banks, one beside the other, row after row. Each part of the vessels has a unique, custom-made cut and is painted with bright colors. Drawings representing animals, people, traditional patterns, and symbols adorn the boats as well.
These pirogues are built by artisans of Fula and Wolof ethnicity, originally from Senegal but well-established within this segment of Mauritanian economy. A small 10-foot-long pirogue takes about a week to build, whereas a 70-foot-long pirogue takes about a month. It’s difficult to estimate their durability, as this depends largely on how often a pirogue is used, how well it is maintained, and how good it was initially built, but 15 years seems to be the longest one can hope for.
The beach in front of the market is frantic with activities. It is nothing short of a cacophony of colors, smells, and sounds. There are people refueling or waterproofing boats, mending fishing nets, or resting and chatting. Closer to the market, there are people rinsing and gutting fish. There are women selling snacks, cooking, and catching up with the latest news. Children play soccer, swim, and chase one another.
----------------------------------------
Title: Galerie Zeinart
Description: The quaint gallery displays works by artists from all across Mauritania.
Content: Galerie Zeinart is a place where local artists can showcase their work to a large audience. The place itself is relatively small, an L-shaped room of no more than 500 square feet in total, but the quality of the art on display is impressive. 
At regular intervals, the place is packed with artwork by artists from all over Mauritania. Notable examples include Mamadou Anne, with his signature animals surfacing from semi-abstract works, making a powerful statement about the impact of contemporary life on the planet; Désirée Trotha, the creator of photographic chronicles of Nouakchott; or Nancy Abeiderrahmane, who captures glimpses of desert life and its subtle colors on canvas.  Interestingly, the artists whose work is on display are usually present at Zeinart, eager to talk to visitors.
The gallery offers more than temporary exhibitions, as some jewelry, ornaments, masks, and other artifacts produced locally are on permanent display and available for sale. Outside the gates of Zeinart’s serene manicured garden, the bustle of Nouakchott continues, as if it were a different planet.
----------------------------------------
Title: Moroccan Western Sahara Wall
Description: This fortified sand barrier dividing a contested territory is the longest minefield in the world.
Content: Barbed wire, electric fences, thousands of armed soldiers, and an estimated seven million landmines run along what much of the world sees as the southern part of Morocco. But this strip of land is actually the disputed territory of Western Sahara, a swath of ungoverned desert just south of Morocco and northwest of Mauritania.
This war-torn territory is divided by the Moroccan Wall, a 1,600-mile-long, 10-foot-tall fortified berm, or sand wall. At 16 times longer than the Berlin wall was, the Moroccan Wall, also known as “the Berm,” is one of the largest active military barriers. Landmines dot the length of the fortification, making it also the longest minefield in the world.
The portion of land to the west of the wall, along the Atlantic Ocean, is controlled by Morocco. The eastern side is governed by the Polisario Front, a Sahrawi liberation movement. The fight for Sahrawi independence is what drove Spain, which had ruled Western Sahara for more than 90 years, out of the region in 1976. When Spain withdrew, Morocco took over the Atlantic coast and Mauritania the eastern portion, which was eventually overtaken by Sahrawi fighters.
Morocco began building a wall through the territory in 1981 to keep out guerilla fighters and refugees from the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic. The barrier was completed in 1987, and though hostilities officially ended in 1991, the wall is still heavily guarded with radar and other surveillance equipment. Still, the Polisario Front has occasionally been able to successfully burrow under the structure.
The landmines along the berm have caused many deaths and casualties among Sahrawi civilians, most of whom live in refugee camps on both sides of the wall. Since 2008, thousands of Sahrawi refugees and international human rights activists have gathered at an annual demonstration called The Thousand Column and created a human chain to protest the wall and demand its demolition.
The Atlas Obscura Podcast is a short, daily celebration of all the world’s strange and wondrous places. Check out this episode about the Moroccan Wall.
----------------------------------------
Title: Monument to the Battle of Oum Tounsi
Description: Initially meant to immortalize the valor of the colonizer, this monument is now a symbol of Mauritanian resistance.
Content: The earliest documented contact between Mauritanian and European merchants dates back to 1442, but sporadic trading certainly predates the 15th century. The year 1442 marks the moment when the Portuguese established the first permanent presence in the territory that later became Mauritania.  Although this establishment had more to do with trade than with political control, its ramifications run through the rest of Mauritanian history. Between the 15th and 19th centuries, the Spanish, Dutch, and British also established some form of trading posts in Mauritania, but it was the French that eventually claimed sovereignty over this land. 
In 1840, after years of trade and political alliances, France issued a decree that claimed possession of Senegal. Most of the territory identified as Senegal, however, was located in modern-day Mauritania. The part of modern-day Mauritania that France was not able to claim was the inland regions of the country. These regions were barren and plagued by the harshest weather conditions imaginable. Inevitably, only the sturdiest and most resilient people called this land home. Among these were the emirates of Trarza and Brakna united against their common enemy: France. After years of local skirmishes and full-fledged battles, the parties finally signed a treaty in which the two emirates became French protectorates. This situation persisted up to the beginning of the 20th century, when France declared ownership over all Mauritania, now considered a political entity separate from Senegal. 
In spite of efforts to pacify the inland regions, animosity persisted against the French. Among the episodes that punctuated this volatile situation, the Battle of Oum Tounsi (aka Umm-Tunisi) stands out. It was the year 1932, and Lieutenant Patrick de Mac Mahon was the head of a French contingent made up of French, Senegalese, and Mauritanian soldiers. Mounted on camels, they were coming from Samara, about 1,500 kilometers to the north. To travel across the desert for so long, the contingent had to do as ancient merchants did, and rely on natural springs and wells. One of these wells was in Oum Tounsi, a nondescript location about 80 kilometers north of Nouakchott.
It was in Oum Tounsi that the contingent was ambushed by 120 Oulad Delim men armed with French and Spanish rifles. The battle was fierce and by the end, the land was strewn with corpses. Thirty-seven men from the French contingent died, including Lieutenant Mac Mahon. The Oulad Delim forces also lost 25 men, but managed to capture the weapons and camels from the French. Subsequently, the French authorities decided to erect a mausoleum to honor Lieutenant Mac Mahon. However, what was meant to immortalize the valor of the French colonizers, was quickly reclaimed to stand as a symbol of Mauritanian resistance against the French colonizers. Reflecting this, today the mausoleum is better known as the Monument to the Battle of Oum Tounsi.
The design of this relatively small structure (about four meters tall) is dominated by Arabic architectural elements, perhaps to acknowledge the number of local soldiers that lost their lives here. If there were inscriptions on the stones at the center, they are no longer discernible due to unsightly graffiti and overexposure to the elements. Not far from the monument is the well that Lieutenant Mac Mahon and his contingent probably used on the fatal day.
----------------------------------------
Title: Old Mosque
Description: An architectural relic that survived the hands of time.
Content: Visitors to Chinguetti have the chance to see new Chinguetti, where most accommodations are located, and old Chinguetti, the semi-abandoned, half-buried city where ancient libraries can be found. There is, however, a third Chinguetti, which has almost entirely been reclaimed by the desert. A little over one mile (two kilometers) northeast of modern Chinguetti, on the way to the village of Entkemkemt, the desert track runs through a set of unimpressive sand dunes. Buried under these sand dunes are the remains of the older Chinguetti. 
Chinguetti was founded in the year 777 CE and became a major trading, cultural, and religious hub in the region by the 11th-century. It was around this time that Chinguetti reached its apogee and started declining. After two centuries of steady decline, the settlement was eventually abandoned and a new Chinguetti was re-established as a fortified trading center. It is undetermined whether remains from the original Chinguetti can be found among the ruins under these dunes.
The terrain is harsh, interspersed with thorny bushes, scrawny goats, and ramshackle huts. There is, however, one imposing, isolated building that stands out. It is the only building from older Chinguetti that has been kept clear of the sand: the Old Mosque. It consists of a prayer room and a minaret. The square-based minaret showcases some outstanding stonework that clearly stood the test of time. The top of the minaret is adorned with four pinnacles that are characteristic of Mauritanian religious architecture. The prayer room is dominated by four arched entryways. The building is unadorned and unattended, but it is still used by local farmers.
----------------------------------------
Title: Shipwreck
Description: On a secluded beach is one of the few shipwrecks left on the shores of Mauritania.
Content: The coastline of Mauritania runs for 700 kilometers, from Cape Nouadhibou to the delta of the Senegal River.  With such an extensive coastline, it would stand to reason that multiple shipwrecks should be found on its shores.  The very opposite is true. One notable exception was Nouadhibou, which was once considered the largest ship graveyard in the world, but even that belongs to the past. The implementation of government programs and incentives to clean up the waters in Nouadhibou enabled regular citizens to buy individual shipwrecks and take them apart for scrap metal. These initiatives worked, and the largest ship graveyard in the world is no more. 
Moving south of Nouadhibou, hundreds of kilometers of sandy beach unfold. Along this stretch, many fishing villages can be found, alongside a handful of small harbors and one industrial port in Nouakchott. It is quite common to find small wooden boats in different degrees of decay near the villages, but it is rare to find a large metal boat on the shores. One of these rare findings is near the town of Tiguent, 100 kilometers south of Nouakchott. 
The reason for the existence of this shipwreck is due to its remoteness and its advanced stage of decay. The remains of the body suggest that the ship must have been about 70 meters in length and 14 meters in width. Most of the hull is buried under the sand, with only the upper deck poking out, and even this is partially submerged by the water at high tide. Sections of the engine are visible, especially a line of cylinders. Sharp metal shards barely make it to the surface, but they can inflict deep cuts if stepped on without wearing protective shoes. As for the identity or the age of the ship, there is nothing on record.
----------------------------------------
Title: Camel Market
Description: The largest camel market in West Africa
Content: Mauritania is home to the second-largest camel market in Africa (the largest is located in Sudan). Fourteen kilometers out of Nouakchott, along Road N3 heading east, the hustle and bustle of the city starts dying out. The buildings quickly thin out, and the atmosphere becomes unmistakably more rural. It is in this urban/rural liminal space that the Camel Market is located.
The site is easily recognizable. Gnarly branches form uneven but effective pens that stretch beyond what the eye can see. A layer of dust lingers permanently, and it simultaneously revels and conceals at irregular intervals.  And thousands of camels are lying on the ground, fighting to exert dominance, pushing and shoving at feeding time, slowly moving along, or fast moving along, or not moving along at all, just staring at you.
Unfortunately, there is no vantage point that can offer a comprehensive view of the market. The only way to see it is to meander through the livestock—mainly camels, but no shortage of cows, goats, or donkeys.  The sea of camels is neatly (but not obviously, to unfamiliar eyes) divided into herds, each belonging to one of the many herders that can be seen roaming around the expanse in their blue boubou (traditional tunic).
Finding out how much a camel is can be a challenge. First of all, herders may think that you are interested in buying one, which would prompt overinflated offers. And second, it may invite herders to boast and share with you the highest price they ever managed to collect for a camel. To compound the mystery, a camel’s price varies according to factors such as age, gender, size, weight, and aesthetic beauty. And this, of course, depends on what the camel is bought for—breeding, racing, or slaughtering. Upon lengthy investigation, it turned out that a healthy camel that is usually bought as a present (a common tradition in Mauritania) and does not excel in any of the aforementioned variables would go for about 850USD (as of 2023).
----------------------------------------
Title: Ben Amera Monolith
Description: The second largest monolith in the world was once betrayed by its lover, Ben Aicha.
Content: Jutting abruptly from the Sahara Desert, Ben Amera stands 633 meters (2,027 feet) tall as the largest monolith in Africa. Though Uluru in Australia is officially larger, some geologists believe that if the portion of the rocks below the surface were included in the measurements, Ben Amera would claim the title.
But there’s more to Ben Amera than just its size. The mammoth rock stands at the end of a chain of monoliths of different sizes. At the far end of the chain stands the slightly smaller Ben Aicha, which, according to the Mauritanian folklore, is the female partner of Ben Amera.
As the story goes, Ben Amera and Ben Aicha were married. But after some time, Ben Amera learned of his wife’s betrayal. There is no resolution to their story, other than their children standing between them to keep them apart, but the family together.
Ben Amera stands about five kilometers from Ben Aicha, so it’s best to explore them with a 4x4. Between them are several smaller monoliths that are covered and surrounded by house-sized rocks that have shed away from the main rock. However, these breakaways make for great scrambling to reach unobscured, elevated views of either Ben Amera or Ben Aicha.
To best experience these monoliths, camp overnight near their shadow. You will be treated to the starry skies illuminating the rocks. Then in the morning, over some Mauritanian tea, the sunrise will peak out from behind Ben Amera with its glorious rays.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bay of Nouadhibou Ship Graveyard
Description: The world's largest ship graveyard is the product of decades of corruption.
Content: The view off the coast of Mauritania’s Bay of Nouadhibou is spotted with rusting hulks in every direction, ships that were cheaper to illegally abandon in the harbor than to correctly dismantle.
The city of Nouadhibou is the second largest settlement in Mauritania, but due to the limited employment opportunities, it is also somewhat poor. This economic hardship, as it often does, led to widespread corruption in the local government. Dismantling large boats is a costly procedure, and unscrupulous ship owners found that for a comparatively small bribe they could simply abandon their unwanted sea hulks in Nouadhibou’s bay. Ships were brought from all over the world to be left in the shallow waters with a particular boom during the 1980’s. Fishing trawlers, cargo vessels, and naval cruisers are just some of the varied types of boats among the over 300 rusting ships that have accumulated over the years like coral.
Despite the environmental concerns of toxic oils, paints, and rust seeping into the waters of the bay, the rotting ships have produced a few surprising benefits. In addition to a continuing salvage industry that has sprung up around the wrecks, their deteriorating hulls have actually provided new habitats for fish and undersea life, giving the city’s vital fishing industry a much-needed shot in the arm. 
Update November 2016: With an injection of captial from the Chinese, especially in the fisheries industry, it’s said the government is committed to dealing with the hulks.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Tree Goats of Morocco
Description: Morocco's Argania trees are infested with nut-hungry goats.
Content: The Argania tree is not the most aesthetically pleasing plant in the world with a rough, thorny bark and gangly, crooked branches. But these Moroccan trees still tend to attract admirers, thanks in large part to the hordes of goats. The animals stand on the impossibly precarious branches and get down to their seasonal feast. Far from just a single ambitious goat climbing a single tree, the animals tend to swarm into the branches in number.
Local farmers condone and even cultivate this bizarre feeding practice, keeping the goats away from the trees while the fruit matures and releasing them at the right time. There is also a secondary benefit to the goats’ habits which is found in their poop. After the goats finish eating the fruit and nuts off the tree, they pass valuable clumps of seeds which are then pressed to create the sought-after Argan oil.
Unfortunately, since the tree goats can be quite profitable for their owners, more and more of them have been brought into the area, causing a general decline in the health of the remaining Argania trees. Hopefully, the delightful tree goats won’t eat themselves out of a tree to perch in.
----------------------------------------
Title: Jardin Majorelle
Description: It took 40 years to build this Eden-like garden in Marrakech, later restored by Yves Saint-Laurent.
Content: The Jardin Majorelle, or Majorelle Garden, is a botanical and artist’s landscape garden in Marrakech. Originally created by the French artist Jacques Majorelle over a period of 40 years, and later restored by Yves Saint-Laurent, it is one of the most beautiful gardens in Morocco.
Jacques Majorelle (1886-1962) was the son of the renowned Art Nouveau furniture designer Louis Majorelle. The Frenchman was a man of many talents and interests, but was best known as an Orientalist painter. Until, that is, he built the Jardin Majorelle, a labor of love 40 years in the making, and for which he is most widely recognized today.
Majorelle arrived in Morocco in 1917, first to Casablanca and then to Marrakech. He fell in love with the colorful city, and in 1923 purchased a plot of land near a palm grove. As he became more established, he slowly began to develop and expand his property. He built himself a house in the Moorish style, and a Berber-style building with a tall adobe tower, which he called the Borj.
In 1931, Majorelle commissioned the architect Paul Sinoir to design and build a Cubist villa near his first house. He used the ground floor as his workshop, and the second floor as his studio and while he continued to paint, Majorelle also dove headlong into one of his other passions, that of an amateur botanist.
For almost 40 years, he carefully cultivated 135 plant species from five continents, turning his property into an enchanting landscape garden of cactus, yucca, jasmine, bougainvillea, palms, coconut trees, banana trees, white water lilies, bamboo and more. He also used his own color to paint the buildings dotted around the property, a clear and intense blue that he trademarked as bleu Majorelle, or Majorelle Blue.
The garden became an expensive passion for Majorelle, a fact he didn’t hide: “This garden is a momentous task, to which I give myself entirely. It will take my last years from me and I will fall, exhausted, under its branches, after having given it all my love.”
In 1947, he decided to open it to the public to help with the maintenance costs. Not long after, things started to go wrong for Jacques Majorelle. He divorced from his wife, Andrée Longueville, in 1956, which forced him to split up the property. He then suffered a serious car accident, eventually leading to the amputation of his left leg. The operations drained his finances and he was forced to sell off his share of the villa and gardens. He was sent to Paris for treatment, where he died of complications from his injuries on October 14, 1962.
The Jardin Majorelle fell into disrepair during this period. But four years after the death of Jacques Majorelle, hope arrived in the shape of French fashion designer Yves Saint-Laurent and his lifelong business partner (and, at the time, lover) Pierre Bergé. They discovered the Jardin Majorelle in 1966 and immediately fell in love with it. In 1980, when they heard the property was likely to be bulldozed and turned into a hotel complex, they promptly purchased the Jardin Majorelle and set about restoring it.
Careful to maintain the original vision of Jacques Majorelle, Saint-Laurent and Bergé oversaw a restoration project that not only revived the garden but expanded upon it. Automatic irrigation systems were installed; a team of 20 gardeners was put in place, and the number of plant species was increased from 135 to 300.
Yves Saint-Laurent died in 2008, and his ashes were scattered in the rose garden at Jardin Majorelle. Two years later, the street in front of the Jardin Majorelle was renamed the Rue Yves Saint Laurent in his honor. In 2010, ownership of the property passed to the Foundation Pierre Bergé – Yves Saint Laurent, a French not-for-profit organization. In 2011, the Berber Museum was inaugurated on the garden grounds, offering a rich insight into the creativity of the Berber people, the most ancient of North Africa.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chefchaouen
Description: Founded as a refugee camp, now a popular tourist spot.
Content: In Chefchaouen, calls to prayers ring out while hashish smoke lazily climbs toward the skyline. The city is punctuated strongly by the contrast between Moroccan tourist hedonism and pious Islamic practices. However, a lesser-known influence lies beneath the surface yet still in plain sight of all who visit.
Aside from peddlers hawking marijuana from the surrounding region, the most noticeable characteristic of this mountainous town is the facades of buildings, painted in varying shades of blue. Powder blue doors leap out against whitewashed walls and entire alleyways emulate the cloudless sky above.
Although there is little indication of the origins of the beautiful color of the city, it is actually a medieval remnant of a population long lost in the area. During the late 15th century, the Spanish Inquisition forced Muslims and Jews out of Europe. Beginning in 1471, Chefchaouen was founded essentially as a refugee camp with a prominent Jewish influence.
Following in Jewish traditions, the refugees painted their buildings blue as a reminder of the God’s power above. Even as the Jewish population faded in the area and gave way to a stronger Muslim presence, the tradition of blue buildings continued. Today, residents of Chefchaouen still regularly paint their houses, keeping the blue city fresh and the lost tradition alive.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tin Mal Mosque
Description: The remains of a magnificent medieval fortress that was the capital of a vast empire.
Content: In a small village, deep in the High Atlas mountains, lie the remains of a medieval Almohad fortress that once was the capital of a vast empire stretching from Mali to Tunisia and Spain.
The city of Tin Mal was established by Ibn Tumart, the founder and mahdi (spiritual leader) of the Almohads, around 1124, and was the cultural and religious center of the empire until the city’s destruction by the rival Merinid dynasty in the 1270s. All that was spared, apart from a few fragments of wall, was the monumental mosque constructed in 1156 in honor of Ibn Tumart, according to official Almohad doctrine.
The mosque was abandoned for many years, but restored in the 1990s. It stands prominently on a hill overlooking the rural village that Tin Mal (also called Tinmel) has become today. Unlike most Almohad mosques, non-Muslims are allowed inside, although you may have to phone the guard to open the door.
The interior is remarkably well-preserved, with an elaborate mihrab (the niche in the wall that faces Mecca, indicating the direction of prayer) and vaulted pillars. The mosque is unique in having its minaret above the mihrab rather than in a separate tower, giving it a castle-like appearance from the outside. 
Update as of October 2023: The mosque is closed indefinitely.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kasbah du Toubkal
Description: A Moroccan getaway in the mountain range that plays the Himalayas' stunt double.
Content: A peaceful chunk of Berber culture restored, the Kasbah du Toubkal is located in the middle of the Atlas Mountain range. The original owner, a local chief, must have had good taste if the scenery of this site is any indication. The surrounding geography was spectacular enough to stand in for the Himalayas in Martin Scorsese’s film Kundun.
The hotel itself is an attraction and you needn’t necessarily be a guest to visit the exotic spot. From a small village below, a path leads visitors to the spectacular setting. There, they can try some of the traditional foods or mint tea surrounded by traditional Berber style. There are also treks (which may include rides on muleback) to visit more of the mountains, the nearby village and Toubkal National Park, which surrounds the area.
The hotel makes efforts to be sustainable and support the nearby community; five percent of profits go toward the local villages, helping to provide education to the local youth. Most of the employees are from the nearby area, and the rebuilding effort used traditional techniques, as electricity hadn’t arrived to the remote mountain area quite yet when the task was at hand.
Adapted with permission from uniqhotels.com.
----------------------------------------
Title: Caves of Hercules
Description: Along the most northwestern point in Africa is an ancient cave surrounded by legends.
Content: Along the most northwestern tip of the African continent is an intriguing cave complex steeped in myths and legends. According to the lore, it was even visited by one of Roman mythology’s most famous heroes.
According to the myth, Hercules (adapted from the Greek Heracles) slept here on his way to steal three golden apples from the Garden of the Hesperides. Stealing the apples, which were believed to confer immortality, was the 11th of the “12 Labors of Hercules.” According to the ancient writers, the garden was located in nearby Lixus (the current city of Larache at the Atlantic coast).
Another story goes that the cave is the one end of a 15-mile-long (24 kilometers) tunnel between Morocco and Spain. A popular folktale is that the famous macaque monkeys at the rock of Gibraltar came from Africa this way.
You won’t find Hercules or monkeys within the caves, but they’re worth exploring nonetheless. The complex has two openings. The one that faces the sea resembles the shape of Africa, and is said to have been created by the Phoenicians. The opening that faces land was created by the local Berbers, who cut their stones from the rock.
The caves are close to the Cap Spartel lighthouse that was built between 1861 and 1864 by an international coalition (including the United States, France, Spain, and Morocco) and marks the entrance of the Strait of Gibraltar.
----------------------------------------
Title: Todra Gorge
Description: One of the most spectacular canyons in the world.
Content: Situated on the east side of the High Atlas Mountains in Morocco, the Todra Gorge is one of the world’s most spectacular canyons.
Here, both the Todra and Dades Rivers have carved out cliff-sided canyons on their final 25-mile stretch through the mountains, leaving behind this series of reliefs and etches in the rock. The Todra is the name of the last 600 meters (just under 2,000 feet) of the canyons. In places, this gorge measures just 33 feet across, but the cliffs are more than 500 feet tall on either side. The river has since dried up, leaving only the imagination to picture the powerful natural forces that once carved this region.
The gorge, though in a remote area of Morocco, is a popular tourist destination and has been outfitted over the years with hiking paths and a well-maintained dirt road that visitors can walk along, though they must share it with mules and other pack animals.
The town of Tinerhir has grown to accommodate tourists and locals passing through the area with their possessions on camelback. Tinerhir, which houses just 36,000 permanent residents, swells to nearly 90,000 residents in popular holidays months, according to the 2004 census. A region of Ouarzazate, the town is mostly populated by Amazighs, which is what many Berbers, the indigenous peoples of North Africa west of the Nile Valley, call themselves. It roughly translates to “free people” or “free and noble men.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Jemaa el-Fna Square
Description: Fortune tellers, snake charmers, poets, and storytellers all gather on this historic square in Morocco.
Content: For a thousand years, Jemaa el-Fna has served as a gathering place and market at the heart of Marrakesh. Fortune tellers, snake charmers, poets, and storytellers come to entertain the crowds, helping to create an intoxicating atmosphere whose cultural importance inspired UNESCO to create its “Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity.”
Jemaa el-Fna dates back to the founding of Marrakesh by the Almoravids in 1062 and later grew in importance when the Almohads took the city in 1147, renovating the square and the city around it. For almost a thousand years, the square has functioned as a market and gathering place at the heart of the city, where fearsome rulers once held public decapitations to keep their subjects in line.
Today, the square attracts the entire spectrum of life in Marrakesh: locals of varying social and ethnic backgrounds, and tourists from across the world. In the morning, stall owners set up their stands selling orange juice, spices, traditional medicines, mint leaves, and snails. The flutes of snake charmers drift across the square, monkey trainers entertain the crowd, and tooth-pullers ready their pliers to pluck out the aching teeth of passersby.
Once the sun sets, Jemaa el-Fna really comes alive. Restaurants around the square start serving hungry customers as they stroll around the plaza. Berber musicians and Gnaoua dancers begin their nightly performances, acrobats and slapstick comedians start performing all across the square, and henna tattoo artists vie for customers as storytellers, and poets pass on the oral traditions of Morocco.
Jemaa el-Fna’s position as an important place of cultural exchange and artistic heritage was the inspiration for UNESCO’s “Proclamation of Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity” in 2001. When locals and other concerned parties began fighting to protect the traditions of the square in the face of growing economic development pressures, UNESCO got on board. Jemaa el-Fna became the first place to gain Masterpiece status, helping to promote and safeguard its traditions.
During the opening meeting for the new UNESCO initiative, the Spanish poet and novelist Juan Goytisolo highlighted the qualities of the historic square: “The spectacle of Jemaa el Fna is repeated daily and each day it is different. Everything changes—voices, sounds, gestures, the public which sees, listens, smells, tastes, touches. The oral tradition is framed by one much vaster – that we can call intangible. The Square, as a physical space, shelters a rich oral and intangible tradition.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Volubilis Archaeological Site
Description: Mosaics, storks, and brothels—this ancient city has it all.
Content: Built in and occupied since the third century BC, Volubilis had seen its share of residents—Phoenicians, Carthaginians, and Romans—before being taken back by the locals by 285.
The city remained occupied by Latin Christians, then Muslims, then the Idrisid Dynasty, the founders of modern Morocco. In the 11th century, it was abandoned when the seat of power moved to Fez, and the city’s stones were looted for the building of Meknes after a powerful earthquake in the 18th century.
Under French occupation, excavation identified the site officially as the Roman city of Volubilis. The excavations revealed glorious mosaic floors, temples, a basilica, aqueduct, baths, gates, and—as in every good old town—brothels.
Besides the usual Berber men selling postcards and “authentic” Roman coins, the city is now occupied by a new kind of resident: storks. What better place for these large birds to build their bulky nests than atop a Roman column? The smooth sides protect them from any land animal and their size and paternal protectiveness protect them from above. Storks can be seen throughout Morocco, nesting atop monuments.
In 1997, the city of Volubilis was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. A quick pit stop there is usually part of a tour package, on the road from Meknes to Fes.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Blue Gate of Fes
Description: The other side is actually green.
Content: If you’ve been to Fes, Morocco, you’ll immediately recognize the Grande Porte Bab Boujeloud, also known as “The Blue Gate of Fes.” If you exit through the Bab Boujloud, however, you’ll note that its other side is actually green.
The towering entryway with its mosaic tiles is the most iconic portal to the old medina, Fes el-Bali, the world’s largest surviving medieval city and urban car-free zone. The blue on the side that greets new visitors represents the color of the city of Fes, which is famous for its pottery, painted with elegant cobalt blue designs. The reverse side, which faces the medina, is green—the color of Islam.
Built in 1913, the bab (gate) is a doorway between two equally colorful and dynamic scenes, one that feels distinctly 21st century, and the other an intriguing mix of different eras.
Once you pass through “The Blue Gate,” the thrum of traffic will quickly fade, replaced by the din of shopkeepers selling their wares and the muffled footsteps of thousands of animals and pedestrians making their way through the winding alleyways. From the Bab Boujeloud entrance, you’ll come upon the two main alleyways into the medina, the Tala’a Kbira and Tala’a Sghira—though whichever you take, you’ll probably get lost.
There are several eateries just inside the gate, and if you find a table on an upper perch, you can watch the mesmerizing and never-ending movement of people and wares from above, passing to and fro.
----------------------------------------
Title: 'The Hills Have Eyes' Gas Station
Description: An abandoned horror film set sits eerily along a highway through Hollywood's "door to the desert."
Content: An American-style gas station is waiting for you on the highway out of Ouarzazate. It’s not a hallucination; rather it is the set used for the 2006 horror film The Hills Have Eyes. It was here, at this gas station, that the film’s protagonists are advised to take a gory, gruesome “shortcut.”
Even for those who aren’t familiar with the movie, the old station is a chilling sight. Supposedly, the eerie movie set looks so real people occasionally mistake it for an actual gas station. Smashed, weathered cars rust outside. Glass bottles glitter in the trees, and creepy puppets peer out from unexpected places.
The gas station sits along the highway that runs through a small commune outside Ouarzazate, a city known as Hollywood’s “door to the desert.” It’s a hotspot for desert-based film sets and on-location shooting. 
Unfortunately, the “diner” is not accessible, but make sure to take a peek through the window. Old props, like cans of soda and food, glass jars, and a handful of flags, sit undisturbed throughout the space. The dust-coated items make it look like the decrepit diner was abandoned in a hurry.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ben Youssef Madrasa
Description: The largest madrasa in Morocco once housed more than 900 students within its exquisite walls.
Content: The Ben Youssef Madrasa is the largest madrasa in Morocco and one of the largest and most important in North Africa. Founded in the 14th century and later expanded, it ceased to function as an Islamic college in 1960, but remains one of the finest buildings in Marrakesh.
The college was founded in the 14th century during the reign of the Marinid sultan Abu al-Hassan, taking its name from the neighboring Ben Youssef Mosque. Initially a modest madrasa, it was later reconstructed during the Saadian Dynasty by the Abdallah al-Ghalib, the second Saadian sultan of Morocco.
Upon the completion of these works in 1565, the Ben Youssef Madrasa stood as one of the largest and most splendid theological colleges in North Africa. For more than four centuries, it housed as many as 900 students, an impressive feat considering the cramped nature of the building’s 130 student dormitory cells.
The madrasa ceased to function as a college in 1960 but was renovated and opened to the public in 1982. Historical significance aside, the madrasa draws in visitors who come to marvel at its intricate decorations that have drawn comparisons with the Alhambra in Granada, Spain (and leading some to conclude that artists may have been brought from Andalusia to work on the madrasa).
Walk along the street outside the madrasa, and you could easily pass by without a second glance at the main entrance, a fairly nondescript wooden door save for an inscription that reads: “You who enter my door, may your highest hopes be exceeded.” But inside lies a cool central courtyard with a marble patio and water basin, the walls and columns decorated with Moorish zellige tiles forming geometrically-patterned mosaics, and sculptures, stuccoes, and cedar windows with carved vines.
A prayer hall sits off the main courtyard, and contains some of the most impressive decorations. Here, three naves are bordered by arch-bearing marble pillars with ornamental motifs of pine cones and palms motifs, the walls decorated with Islamic calligraphy and more zellige tile work. Look up and you’ll see a dome crafted from cedar wood with 24 small mosaic windows.
Back out in the courtyard, you can see the tiny windows of the student dormitories looking down from the first floor. You can explore the 130 or so cells of the madrasa, some so small you have to crouch down to enter, and some offering slight but atmospheric views of the courtyard below.
----------------------------------------
Title: Atlas Film Studios
Description: World's largest film studio, where visitors tour the decaying sets that litter the harsh desert environment.
Content: Named for its proximity to the Atlas Mountains, a range that stretches across northern Africa, Atlas Film Studios is the largest film studio in the world. Covering more than 322,000 square feet of desert, Atlas Film is located just five miles outside of Ouarzazate on the road to Marrakech and is a popular tourist destination, in part because the grounds are littered with old movie sets that are decaying in the harsh environment.
Atlas Film Studios wasn’t built until 1983 when Moroccan entrepreneur Mohamed Belghmi recognized the need for a permanent studio in the area. But Ouarzazate was first used as a movie location by acclaimed British director David Lean for his 1962 epic Lawrence of Arabia. Familiar with the area, Lean knew that the site could provide an authentic setting for any ancient, desert-based story.
Over the years, Ouarzazate has served as a shooting location for Alexander the Great, Black Hawk Down, Kingdom of Heaven, Babel, The Mummy (1999), Star Wars (1977), The Living Daylights (1987), Martin Scorsese’s Kundun (1997), and many others, including Ridley Scott’s epic Gladiator (2000), starring Russell Crowe, and Body of Lies (2008) also starring Russell Crowe along with Leonardo DiCaprio.
The first thing visitors to Atlas encounter is a massive prop jet plane that was used in 1985’s Jewel of the Nile. Out in the desert, one of the most popular attractions is the Colosseum where Crowe fought in Gladiator. Inside one of the first buildings, there is a replica “kasbah” with winding passageways and alleys. In another area of the studio, there is an Egyptian tomb with 12ft statues guarding the entrance and exit.
All in all a great tour with a great guide and well worth the money, but don’t be surprised by the state of disrepair that seems to have swept the site.
----------------------------------------
Title: Legzira Beach
Description: Rocky Atlantic beach home to a stunning stone arch.
Content: In between Mirleft and Sidi Ifni can be found Morocco’s most unique beach.
Like its other Atlantic counterparts, the 8 km-long stretch of Legzira Beach is windy, rocky, and expansive. What set Legzira apart, however, were its two mammoth stone arches. Naturally formed after years of erosion, these sedimentary giants jutted out into the perpetually crashing waves and are accessible during low-tide.
Sadly, only one of the two arches now remains. The other collapsed in late 2016, undermined by wave action. The second arch is probably also at risk of eventual collapse, as the sea continues to wear away at the fragile red sandstone from which it is formed.
Being a haven for European para-gliders and surfers, the bongo drums and wetsuits manifest themselves a little ad nauseam, but through the Atlantic mists scraps of Moroccan life, like donkeys and fisherman, can still be found.
----------------------------------------
Title: Saadian Tombs
Description: Deliberately hidden for centuries, the magnificent Saadian Tombs were eventually uncovered in 1917.
Content: The Saadian Tombs are a series of sepulchers and mausoleums in Marrakech that house the remains of important figures from the Saadi Dynasty, which ruled Morocco from 1549 to 1659. Shortly after the fall of the dynasty, the tombs were sealed off and hidden, only to be rediscovered in 1917.
The royal necropolis on which the Saadian Tombs were built was likely in use since the beginning of the 14th century. But it was during the reign of Ahmed el-Mansour, the Saadi Sultan from 1578 to 1603, that the tombs reached a far more prominent and lavish status.
Ahmed el-Mansour’s father, Mohammed ash-Sheikh, was buried at the site after his murder in 1557. Not long after, Ahmed el-Mansour began to enlarge and embellish the entire burial ground, including the construction of two magnificent mausoleums for his father, his mother, his own descendants and, of course, himself.
His own mausoleum, the Hall of Twelve Columns, was built from imported Italian Carrara marble, with gilding honeycomb muqarnas, a type of ornamented vaulting, decorated with gold. He shares his mausoleum with some of his closest family members and descendents, including Princess Zorha, whose tomb carries the epitaph, “Here is the tomb of the noble lady, new moon, marvel of virtues.”
Between the two mausoleums and throughout the gardens lie many more tombs, including a prominent chamber for Ahmed el-Mansour’s mother, Lalla Messaouda, who was buried in 1591. In total, 66 princes and other prominent figures lie in the Saadian Tombs, as well as more than 100 chancellors and wives, each resting closer to the Sultan’s mausoleum depending on his or her status. These include the graves of a number of trusted Jewish advisers, some of who, judging by their location, were highly valued by the Sultan.
The very existence of the Saadian Tombs was placed in doubt with the end of the Saadi Dynasty. Less than two decades after the end of Saadian rule, along came a man who certainly deserves a brief digression. This man was Moulay Ismail ibn Sharif, the second ruler of the Moroccan Alaouite dynasty, who reigned from 1672 to 1727.
Moulay Ismail, variously known as the “Warrior King” and “The Bloodthirsty,” had a penchant for adorning his city walls with the heads of his victims, which totaled an estimated 30,000 during his rule. He also had a fondness for concubines, which numbered around 2,000, and multiple wives (including, incidentally, an Irishwoman named Mrs. Shaw). In between torturing laborers and beheading servants, he managed to father 867 children (525 sons and 342 daughters), an achievement recognized by Guinness World Records.
When he came to power, Moulay Ismail wanted to erase all evidence of the magnificent Saadi Dynasty. He set about destroying and stripping many of the dynasty’s greatest buildings, including the El Badi Palace. But when it came to the Saadian Tombs, he showed a surprising amount of restraint, fearful of committing sacrilege by destroying a burial ground. Instead, he built a wall around the tombs, leaving only a small passage from the nearby Kasbah Mosque.
Thereafter, the Saadian Tombs lay untouched and neglected for more than two centuries, the mausoleums attracting little more than weeds, stray cats and storks. Then, in 1917, a French aerial photography survey sighted the ruins. The rediscovered tombs were promptly uncovered and restored, and soon opened to the public in all their former glory.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kasbah Aït Benhaddou
Description: A fortified city, home to a remaining population of five families
Content: As this fortified city full of towering kasbahs and crumbling walls took beatings from the brutal rains, its citizens defected into more modern digs on the other side of the Ounila River, except for a stubborn few that remain in the formerly majestic ksar. While in the 1940s, more than 90 families were living in the Kasbah of Ait Benhaddou, today only five families are still living inside the fortress.
A UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1987, Aït Benhaddou was once a major stop along the caravan route between Marrakech and the Sahara. The striking visage of southern Moroccan architecture is thought to be 17th-century and contains a mosque, two cemeteries (Jewish and Muslim), a public square, and areas for threshing grain outside of the ramparts. 
Despite not being completely abandoned, the earthen architecture is vulnerable to weather and lack of care. While the site has maintained its authenticity, the lack of maintenance and its sparsity of inhabitants led to serious deterioration. Assigned a five-year plan by officials, the ksar received some care and restoration between 2007 and 2012, using as much wood and as many earthen techniques as possible to keep the site historically preserved. One of the remaining families opened a traditional café to give visitors an overview of the ancient lifestyle in the fortress and as a way to preserve their tradition and heritage.
The Kasbah was a set for many international films and TV shows, like Game of Thrones, Laurence of Arabia, and Gladiator.
----------------------------------------
Title: Meroe Pyramids
Description: These Nubian pyramids are strange and unique, even by pyramid standards.
Content: Slowly being reclaimed by the sands of time (literally), the pyramids of Meroë hold the fragile footprints of a mysterious and long-forgotten civilization in Sudan.
Meroë was an ancient city in the Kushite Kingdom, and the sheer number of its still-standing pyramids indicate that it was a massive city, once bustling with traders and everyday inhabitants. (And, most obviously, a booming tradition of masonry.)
Archaeologists have identified that the numerous pyramid structures are very clearly in the Nubian style. The structures’ sharp angles and relatively narrow footprints carry all the hallmarks of the former Kushite Kingdom, meaning Meroë was a pinnacle location in one of history’s greatest and least-understood civilizations.
The kingdom stretched throughout this region in ancient times. But now, little more than the dusty pyramids standing solemnly in the desert remain of the city and, by proxy, of the Kushites it belonged to. But with more than 200 of them to mark the location, they are quite enough to astound visitors and historians alike.
----------------------------------------
Title: Suakin Island Ruins
Description: Remains of an abandoned coral city.
Content: For 3000 years, the port on the island of Suakin was strategically crucial to powerful empires. Located on the Red Sea in Northern Sudan, the former port of Suakin is now a crumbled relic of the wealth that passed through its coral walls from around the world.
Ramses III initially developed the port of Suakin during the 10th century B.C.E. At the time, Suakin offered an outlet to the Red Sea for trade and exploration. 1000 years later, as Islam gained followers and spread from the Hijaz region of modern day Saudi Arabia, the port took on new importance and became an outlet for Africans on pilgrimage to Mecca.
While Suakin constantly evolved, it remained prosperous throughout its existence, bringing great riches to the shores of Sudan. Local legend tells of a king who operated out of the old city and had 360 wives and lavish quarters in the old city. Stemming from its great wealth, Suakin developed into a rich, gated island port. Every building was made out of stunning coral and the walls were decorated in detailed wood and stone coverings. Suakin was the height of medieval luxury on the Red Sea.
During the 19th century, Suakin evolved for the last time, becoming a hub for the slave trade from Eastern Africa. As the slave trade diminished, the port became increasingly unnecessary. By the 1920s, Suakin was falling into complete disrepair. Shallow waters and rough coral had pushed most trade North to Port Sudan and the coral buildings that were once the crown jewel of the port were not maintained and disintegrating.
Only ruins of the once great coral city still exist and are carefully guarded as part of the tourism industry. Besides being a tourist destination, the port still serves ferries to the Saudi coast and provides access between the continents for thousands of pilgrims completing the Haj every year.
----------------------------------------
Title: Précontinent II
Description: All that remains of Jacques Cousteau's 1960s underwater "village."
Content: Précontinent II is the last visible reminder of a series of three French underwater habitats built between 1962 and 1965. Developed by the world-famous oceanography pioneer Jacques-Yves Cousteau, the underwater “village” was supposed to be proof that it’s possible for humans to live underwater without interruption for extended periods of time, at increasing depths.
The habitats were also built to explore the underwater world and conduct research for the petrol industry which financed the project. The project was named précontinent for the French word for continental shelf, the edges of a continent that are covered by ocean.
Précontinent I was the word’s first underwater habitat, located in the Balearic Sea off coast from Marseille. It was completed in September 1962, two years before the American Sealab project. Two aquanauts, Albert Falco and Claude Wesly, lived in the habitat, a five-meter steel cylinder known as “Diogenes.” The habitat was fixed 11 meters under the surface of the water and fed with compressed air. Hot water came through a plastic pipe from a ship, and food in waterproofed containers.
Other  “furnishings” included infrared lamps used as heaters, a record player, a radio, three telephones, a video surveillance system, a library, a TV and a bed. In the bottom of the habitat was an airlock, which allowed the two men to exit into the ocean, where they built compounds for fish and studied their behavior, and took measurements for topographical underwater maps.
A year later, Précontinent II was launched about 35 km northeast, near the Sha’ab Rumi (Arabian for “Roman Reef”), off the coast of Port Sudan. The so-called Starfish House lasted for four weeks, housing a group of oceanographers as well as Madame Cousteau and the parrot Claude, who was supposed to warn the aquanauts of possible danger in the air.
A second Précontinent II habitat, the “Deep Cabin”—a smaller version of the one used in Précontinent I—was installed even deeper into the sea, at 27 meters under the surface. Other structures were built including a tool shed and an air-filled hangar containing the Hydrojet Saucer DS-2, a small submarine for two people, which was equipped with three movable outside lamps, two cameras, a radio, a tape recorder and a movable grappler.
The mission was to observe and collect fish and other organisms for exhibition and studies at the Oceanographic Museum in Monaco. Jacques-Yves Cousteau also wanted to prove that it would be more practical to anchor offshore drilling rigs at the bottom of the ocean than to place them above water, as well as prove the existence of a richness of minerals around continental shelfs.
Précontinent III was supposed to start on September 17, 1965. This time the habitat was a dome constructed on a platform, with much-improved technology, and housed several aquanauts including Jacques-Yves Cousteau. However, the launch hit a snag. The habitat had already been brought to the diving place, sealed and put under pressure when the weather turned bad. It was brought back to the harbor where the aquanauts stayed in the habitat and under pressure, waited for the weather to change. Four days later the project was launched in earnest and the habitat anchored 100 meters below the surface, off the coast of Monaco near the Cap Ferrat lighthouse. The project lasted 22 days and its mission was mainly related to oil production—for example, how to assemble a drill head under water.
This was the last mission of the Précontinent series, even though six missions in total were planned. Jacques-Yves Cousteau changed his mind and decided he didn’t want to be a part of research for the petrol industry anymore. Instead he dedicated his career to the exploration and protection of the world’s oceans from then on. 
From the three Précontinent missions only part of Précontinent II remains underwater, and has become the site of many diving tours from Sudan and Egypt. At the anchor place of the habitat you can find the remains of the tool shed, crusted with coral growth, and the fish cages, covered with sponges. A few meters deeper are the shark cages, covered with coral and crustacean, and the hangar, which still stands anchored in the bottom of the ocean, still filled with air and possible to enter.
----------------------------------------
Title: Jebel Barkal
Description: Crumbling pyramids and temple ruins stand within the shadow of this sacred butte.
Content: Weathered pyramids spike upward amid sweeping stretches of golden desert sand. They stand in the shadow of Jebel Barkal, a small butte that was considered sacred thousands of years ago.
The Egyptians, then later the Kushites, transformed the 322-foot-tall sandstone monolith into a trove of architectural treasures. Roughly a dozen pyramids are scattered around the base of the mountain, as are the ruins of temples, statues, and hieroglyphics. One of the temples was dedicated to the god Amun, who was believed to live atop the butte.
The Egyptian Pharaoh Thutmose III first extended his empire to include Jebel Barkal around 1450 BC. Later pharaohs and Kush rulers oversaw the construction of the many pyramids that still stand around the landmark. The Kushites restored the neglected temples and continued building more structures around the base of the butte.
But in the many centuries since the Kushites ruled the land, the stately pyramids have fallen into disrepair. The temples are little more than fragmented ruins, partially buried beneath the sand.
The structures at Jebel Barkal are among the many pyramids that dot the Sudanese landscape, as the country has more than twice the amount of pyramids as Egypt. However, many of these sites are far off the typical tourist track, meaning those who take a trip to Sudan will likely have these monuments all to themselves.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sheikh Hamad-al Nil Tomb
Description: Every Friday, Sufi dervishes whirl around the tomb in a trance-like state as part of a sacred ritual called dhikr.
Content: Every Friday evening, Sufi dervishes perform a ritual called dhikr at the tomb of Sheikh Hamad-al Nil, a 19th-century Sufi leader. The devotees dance and work themselves into a frenzy while reciting Allah’s name, helping to create a state of ecstatic abandon that supposedly allows their hearts to communicate directly with God.
The ceremony begins when the dervishes make their entrance to the cemetery dressed in colorful patchwork robes with bright beads draped around their necks. They then proceed to a patch of cleared ground in front of the mosque while banging drums and chanting while a man attempts to enforce the perimeter boundary.
Although he carries a large club, he still struggles to maintain order as the crowd is, by now, wild with excitement. Fights break out among the more belligerent adherents who appear to taunt each other (quickly dealt with by the club-wielding man). Wild-eyed priests dance around the perimeter and blow incense into the faces peering out from the mass of spectators.
The proceedings become more electric as the evening wears on. The rhythmic chants of “La Illaha Illallah” (there is no god but Allah) become hypnotic. Every so often a devotee breaks off from the main group, spinning in a blur of arms and legs. With eyes rolling, the dancer seems to enter into a trance-like state before collapsing onto the ground.
The ceremony begins around 4:30. Visitors are treated with respect despite the fighting and theatrical bad tempers among devotees. It’s hard not to be swept along with the ritual. When it ends, you almost feel as if you’ve suddenly snapped out of your own trance.
----------------------------------------
Title: Western Deffufa of Kerma
Description: The best-preserved example of a unique structure in Nubian architecture.
Content: The word defuffa is thought to derive from either the Nubian word for a mud-brick building or the Arabic word daffa, meaning “pile.” There are only three deffufa remaining in the world, all of which are located at the former site of the Nubian Kingdom of Kerma, which existed between 2500 and 1500 B.C.
The remains of the walled city of Kerma is one of the largest archaeological sites in ancient Nubia. Archaeologists have identified a system of roads and well-differentiated neighborhoods. It is likely that this metropolis was reserved for members of the royal elite and the ruling class. Though Nubian rulers maintained the kingdom’s independence for nearly a thousand years, the kingdom of Kerma ended around 1450 B.C. with the conquest of Kush by Egypt.
Even today, the Western Deffufa dominates the ruins of Kerma. It measures 18 meters (59 feet) tall, with columned rooms, passageways, paintings, and a shrine. It is the best-preserved example of this structure in Nubian architecture.
The deffufa once functioned as a temple and the religious center of the city. It has multiple levels, with an interior staircase connecting the floors and leading up to a rooftop platform. Additional chambers underground were accessible through galleries. Evidence of a limestone altar, built for animal sacrifice, was also found. Though the precise functions of the deffufa are not fully known, it is believed they were connected to religious and burial practices. About two kilometers (1.2 miles) away lie the remains of the Eastern Deffufa, which is believed to be a funerary chapel and burial ground.
Excavations at Kerma started with an Egyptian and Sudanese survey made by American archaeologist George A. Reisner in the early 20th century. Following up on that work, Swiss archaeologist Charles Bonnet led a series of excavations at the site from 1977 to 2003. It was this work that helped uncover evidence of Kerma as a large, independent urban settlement, rather than an Egyptian satellite as initially thought.
----------------------------------------
Title: Church Pillars of Sai Island
Description: These pillars are one of the few remnants from the mysterious lost empire of Makuria.
Content: Sai Island is a tiny island in the Nile stretching just five kilometers across and 12 kilometers long, but it contains ruins spanning thousands of years and several empires. Though Sudan is now primarily an Islamic country, a medieval Christian empire known as Makuria flourished in Sudan between the 7th and 14th centuries. Despite the length of its existence, there are still many unanswered questions about Makuria and its people.
Sai Island was once a bishop’s see (residence). The last remnants of the church of Sai Island can be seen as a few lonely pillars surrounded by pottery and masonry remnants. Old Dongola, to the south of Sai Island, is the only other archaeological site surviving from the Makurian empire. Sadly, when Lake Nasser was created much of what was northern Makuria was flooded including one of its main religious centers, the site of the Cathedral of Faras.
There are other ruins on Sai Island, including the foundations of an Egyptian town and temple that date back to 1500 B.C., with the ruins of an Ottoman fort built on the site of the town. There are also Islamic cemeteries on the island with their characteristic dome-shaped tombs.
----------------------------------------
Title: Battle of Abu Klea Memorial
Description: A remote monument to one of the fiercest battles fought by the Victorian British Army.
Content: Far out in the Bayuda desert, seven hours’ drive north of Khartoum, lies an almost forgotten memorial to a very famous battle, Abu Klea.
On the 17th of January, 1885, a British column of approximately 1,400 men on its way to relieve the besieged General Gordon in Khartoum was attacked by 13,000 Mahdist forces. Even though the action didn’t last that long (about 15 minutes), Abu Klea has become infamous as one of the hardest battles ever fought by the British Army.
In that brief period, extreme violence occurred that turned “the sand of the desert sodden red” with the blood of over 1,000 Dervish and 81 British troops killed. It was also one of the few occasions a British square had been broken by “native” troops, as immortalized in Rudyard Kipling’s poem “Fuzzy Wuzzy.”       
A memorial stone erected shortly after the battle names the British dead and marks the spot where the front left of the square was approximately positioned. The battle site is in a remote area not easily reached and therefore rarely visited, but for those who make the journey little has changed in 132 years. A lunar landscape added to the ferocious heat and stinging wind make for a hostile environment, walking on the ironstone surface makes matters even jollier as electric shocks are created with virtually anything subsequently touched. It really doesn’t take much imagination to picture the fierce fighting which took place there under such harsh conditions.
Graves of British soldiers dot the surrounding area; they are marked with stones and their bones are, according to local tribesmen, occasionally uncovered due to the relentless wind. Those same locals appear to treat the site with a wary respect and claim the place is visited by spirits of the dead. If there was one truly haunted place on Earth then surely there could not be many better contenders than this.
----------------------------------------
Title: Goz Abu Goma Bridge
Description: One of the largest early 20th-century bridges in Sudan.
Content: Stretching across the White Nile in southern Sudan, near the city of Kosti, the Goz Abu Goma Bridge is almost exactly a third of a mile long. Walkways line both sides of the railroad tracks that traverse the teal, truss bridge, which is the largest of its kind in Sudan. 
The Goz Abu Goma Bridge is a swing bridge, which can open at its center like a door, allowing large boat traffic to safely pass by on the White Nile below. When it was in operation, the railway linked Khartoum, Sudan’s capital, to southern cities like El Obeid. However, the southern parts of the railroad have been little used since the South Sudan Civil War broke out in 2013.
The Cleveland Bridge & Engineering Company, a company based in Darlington, England, built the bridge between 1909 and 1910. It was one of the most ambitious building projects the company took on in the early 20th century. The far-reaching Cleveland Company built bridges across the world in many countries either part of the British empire or where England held significant sway. Before 1925, the company constructed bridges in Shanghai, Zimbabwe, New Zealand, and the Isle of Man.
The Sudanese Goz Abu Goma Bridge was the last they completed before World War I enveloped the globe. The British colonial administration of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan had commissioned the massive bridge, which stretched 500 feet longer than any other bridge the company had previously built.
----------------------------------------
Title: Leftover Star Wars Sets
Description: Buildings from the fictional planet of Tatooine still litter the Tunisian desert.
Content: While much of George Lucas’ mythic “Star Wars” films were filmed in studio lots or in preexisting structures, a number of their exterior sets, especially for the desert planet Tatooine, were purpose built for the films and simply abandoned to the sands and the fans when filming was over. 
While the most famous leftover Star Wars set may be the Hotel Sidi Driss, a Tunisian hotel which was used as the interior of the Lars moisture farm, Luke Skywalker’s teenage home, many more structures were built just for the production such as the Lars farm exterior and most of the city of Mos Espa.
In Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace the spaceport of Mos Espa is shown as a bustling frontier town where young Anakin Skywalker lives and works as a slave. Many of the bulbous structures were filled in using CGI, but much of the first stories of the buildings were built practically and still stand as a squat beige town square that looks as though it was shaved cleanly off at the top. The facades are not actually buildings, but fronts built for filming, yet visitors can still mill about the exteriors as though they were on that far flung desert planet. There are also some iconic “moisture vaperators” also left on the site.
The single-domed building that was built to represent the outside of the Lars Homestead where Luke Skywalker grew up, unaware of his cosmically significant heritage, was used originally in Star Wars Episode 4: A New Hope, and then shot again for the prequel films. This little building was built in the middle of nowhere for the very first film in the series and was abandoned after shooting wrapped. Left to the elements, it deteriorated but was actually refurbished when the later prequels once again had use for it. After the prequels finished shooting the fake home was once again abandoned and began to fall apart again. However a group of dedicated fans have actually taken to restoring the hut so that it can last for future fans of the franchise.
Unfortunately rampant desertification has threatened both the Mos Espa and Lars farm sets as the unstoppable desert sands are beginning to bury the science fiction meccas. The country of Tunisia has even recently sought international support to save the Mos Espa set which is a huge source of tourism revenue for the country.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hotel Sidi Driss
Description: The original film set of Luke Skywalker's Tatooine home from the "Star Wars" trilogy.
Content: Hotel Sidi Driss should be on the map for every hardcore “Star Wars” fan. It is the place where many of the most memorable scenes of the saga were filmed, and fans will no doubt recognize Luke Skywalker’s childhood home on the planet of Tatooine. Of course, for anyone who grew up around the Sidi Driss hotel and Berber architecture, Tatooine looks less like an alien planet and more like the old neighborhood.
The hotel is situated in village of Matmâta and the whole village itself is a prime example of traditional Berber architecture such as the adobe caverns dug into the sandstone. While the exact history of the settlement is unknown, local legend claims that they date back at least to the times of Punic wars in from 264 to 146 BC. The whole region was virtually unknown to the outsiders until 1967, when severe flooding prompted locals to seek out aid from central Tunisian government.
It was only 10 years later that George Lucas selected Hotel Sidi Driss as one of the locations for filming his movie A New Hope. In following years the hotel fell back in relative obscurity, and most of the decorations used in the movie were removed by the owners. In 1995 a French Star Wars fan by the name of Philip Vanni restored the frescoes in one of the rooms. The Star Wars decorations were fully restored in 2000 for filming of Attack of the Clones, one of the prequels of the original trilogy. With the popularity that Star Wars universe now enjoys it is unlikely that movie decorations will be removed anytime soon.
The hotel is open all year round and offers affordable accommodation. It can accommodate the maximum of 145 guests in 20 rooms, grouped in four separate caverns. The fifth pit is a hotel restaurant.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lars Homestead
Description: The original movie set for the home of "Star Wars" hero Luke Skywalker.
Content: Lars Homestead is one in a series of Tunisian relics from a galaxy far, far away. The unassuming structure is the original movie-set for the home of hero Luke Skywalker, the main protagonist in both the original Star Wars movie trilogy and later episodes of the popular series.
Located just outside the town of Naftah (Nefta) in the Eastern part of the country, the small dome represents the entrance to a below-ground-level home. First constructed in 1976 when the film crew for Star Wars: Episode IV — A New Hope arrived in Tunisia, after serving its purpose Lars Homestead was left to decay in the middle of the desert.
Just like the Star Wars movies, the saga of Lars Homestead seems to never end. In the year 2000, after decades of abandonment, the iconic home was reconstructed for the latest installment of series, Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones. After filming concluded, once again the homestead was left to the whims of this unforgiving environment. Several years later, the dome was given an unexpected new lease on life and sympathetically restored, this time by a dedicated group of international Star Wars movie enthusiasts.
It’s incredible that a relatively flimsy film set from 1976 has lasted this long, especially here. After all, Lars Homestead was created to be a temporary set, and permanence was not part of the original design brief. However, although Lars Homestead may be extant, it continues to suffer from both the unrelenting Saharan climate, and due to the remote location, neglect.
Unknown to many fans of the Star Wars series, the movie directors must plead guilty to deceiving the movie-goers. Most would naturally assume that both the entrance to Lars Homestead and the internal below-ground courtyard of the same house, are one structure. In reality, with the help of a little Hollywood magic, the inner courtyard of Lars Homestead was created and filmed around 160 miles away from this domed entrance, inside what is now the real-life Hotel Sidi Idris.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ksar Ouled Soltane
Description: 15th century granary, or futuristic slave quarters in Tataouine.
Content: Atop a gentle, dry and sandy hill is the oval fortification of Ksar Ouled Soltane. Rounded, protected structures built completely of cracked, dry mud face the center of the castle-like granary, while steep outdoor staircases give the area the appearance of another world entirely.
Ksar Ouled Soltane looks so otherworldly, George Lucas choose Southern Tunisia for filming four of the six Star Wars films. Fans will undoubtably recognize Ksar Ouled as the slave quarters where Anakin and his mother lived in the Phantom Menace. Even more surprising for fans of Lucas’ films, is that the area of Tunisia is actually called Tataouine, styled as Tatooine for the films.
Before Star Wars put Ksar Ouled Soltane on the tourist map in North Africa, the windswept buildings stood in relative isolation. Constructed by Berber people, the ghorfas, or stacked grain-holding buildings have survived the hot climate since the 15th century. Although they have now been abandoned for many years, the Ksar was built for protection from raids, and designed to remain cool during arid weather near the Sahara Desert.
The entire complex can be toured and explored on a visit to Tataouine, and for the nerdier of visitor, complete Star Wars tours of Southern Tunisia are offered by many locals.
----------------------------------------
Title: Matmata Underground Houses
Description: Made famous by "Star Wars," these troglodyte homes face an uncertain future.
Content: The Berber underground homes of Matmata lie in an arid, pockmarked landscape in the parched valleys of southern Tunisia’s Djebel Dahar region. Made famous by Star Wars, these traditional structures are now threatened as residents move away to live in towns and villages.
Every Star Wars fan worth their salt knows a little about the location of Luke Skywalker’s house: not Tatooine, but the actual filming location in Tunisia. Or, to be more precise, the Hotel Sidi Driss in Matmata, chosen as the set for Luke’s family home thanks to its otherworldly underground construction.
But the Hotel Sidi Driss isn’t the only underground building of its type. Similar structures dot the landscape around Matmata, a pitted land of palm trees and olive groves. It’s an open question as to when nomadic tribes decided to settle here in their underground houses, and the entire area was largely unknown to the outside world until the 1960s, when severe flooding brought it to the attention of the Tunisian government.
The houses themselves are built by first digging a deep circular pit into the sandstone, which is soft enough to work with simple hand tools. Caves are then dug out around the edges of the pit, forming the underground rooms and leaving the main pit as a courtyard.
Once finished, the troglodyte construction offers a fine escape from the heat of the day, and a sturdy home that could survive for many years. Unless, of course, heavy rains like those of the 1960s lead to flooding, damage and in some cases the destruction of the underground dwellings. Periods of extreme drought can also damage the homes.
Since the last major flooding, and despite the tourism generated by Star Wars, another threat to the homes has arisen: rural depopulation. Locals had already begun moving out of their traditional homes during the 1960s and 1970s, when President Habib Bourguiba was trying to modernize the country and many Berbers moved to the towns.
More have since left, slowly trickling away with the decline of tourism. Tunisia’s tourism industry has been struggling ever since the country’s 2011 Arab Spring uprising, and was further damaged following the 2015 attacks in Tunis and Sousse, which directly targeted tourists.
Some locals have remained, however, living with their families in their underground households, working their olive farms and occasionally accepting tips from tourists who want a tour of their home. And today, only a handful of men still know how to dig and maintain these special Berber dwellings.
----------------------------------------
Title: El Jem Amphitheatre
Description: The largest and best-preserved Roman amphitheater in Africa was designed to seat 35,000 people.
Content: The Amphitheatre of El Jem is one of the largest Roman amphitheaters ever built. Indeed (depending on how you measure it) El Jem may be considered to be the third-largest ever, after the Colosseum in Rome and the destroyed amphitheater in Capua. Designed to seat a whopping crowd of 35,000 people, today El Jem is both the largest and the best-preserved Roman amphitheater in Africa.
Located in the city of El Jem (or El Djem), which was known back in Roman times as Thysdrus, El Jem Amphitheatre was listed as a UNESCO World Heritage in 1979. Hence, if you make it to the town of El Jem, you’re probably not going to miss this dramatic attraction. Although far from secret, the backstory of the construction, and the modern-day misconceptions of El Jem Ampitheatre, are little known.
The precise construction date is debated, but most historians believe the building of El Jem Ampitheatre began in the year 238. Not exactly an auspicious year for the Roman Empire, 238 came to be known historically as the “Year of the Six Emperors.” In just one year, six different people were proclaimed Emperors of Rome.
Locally, the year 238 was particularly tumultuous, as it included a revolt by the population of Thysdrus (El Jem), who opposed the enormous taxation amounts being levied by the Emperor Maximinius’s local procurator. As with all good taxation revolts, riots ensued, and the procurator was assassinated. However, even the assassination wasn’t enough to satisfy the locals, and they pleaded for a new ruler of the Roman Empire.
Soon after the North African uprising, Goridan the First was appointed Emperor, along with Goridan the Second, his son, to co-serve as Roman leaders. Although their rule was brief—they only ruled for about 20 days—it was long enough to start the construction of the imposing amphitheater in El Jem.
In more contemporary times, perhaps it’s the enormous size and uniqueness of the El Jem Amiptheatre that leads to many misattributions (on behalf of both movie fans and local guides). Some people say the Oscar-winning movie Gladiator was filmed here (it wasn’t, a fake “Colosseum” was built on the relatively nearby island nation of Malta). There are also many attributions to the Monty Python film Life of Brian being filmed at this location. But though Monty Python did film in Tunisia, they used the Roman theater in Carthage near the capital city of Tunis.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mos Espa
Description: An abandoned film set location for a remote spaceport in a galaxy far, far away hides in the Tunisian desert.
Content: Sitting in the sands that separate two salt lakes, the enormous Chott El Djerid and smaller Chott El Gharsa, Mos Espa is an abandoned film set created as the location of a remote spaceport in a galaxy far, far away. The surreal setting and dramatic otherworldly structures make Mos Espa a “must-see” if you’re a Star Wars fan. However, it’s a great visit even if you’re not a fan of the films.
Being one of Star Wars’s major spaceports, Mos Epsa is shown in the movies as a town bustling with the daily life of different aliens from around the galaxy. Home to hero Anakin Skywalker from Episodes I, II, and III, we are told the location is on a remote planet known as Tatooine—named after the very real nearby Tunisian town, Tataouine. Here, Anakin and his mother live as slaves, and the foundations for all the vast storylines of the older Star Wars movies are laid.
Although some of the Mos Espa townsite was added in post-production using CGI, here on the edge of the Sahara, all of the major buildings from the movies are extant. Tens of structures line the main city streets, including many “Moisture Vaporators”— in Star Wars, these devices were used to harvest atmospheric humidity and obtain much-treasured water.
Currently, Mos Espa is being slowly engulfed by the sand that comes with each passing dust-storm. Over the years, the harsh Sahara climate, moving sand dunes, and a trickle of tourists have started to take their toll. Unlike the other more traditional Star Wars filming locations, Mos Espa town was built in the middle of nowhere. Although nothing here was designed for permanence, thanks to the work of enthusiasts both local and foreign, you can still walk the streets that Qui-Gon Jinn walked to meet Anakin.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tophet at Carthage
Description: An ancient burial ground believed to have been used for ritual sacrifice.
Content: Tophets are at the center of one of the most contentious archaeological debates surrounding the region of northern Africa that was once part of the ancient Carthaginian Empire. The enigmatic ancient cemeteries are believed to have been used for the ritual sacrifice of children and animals.
The burial site at Carthage in Tunisia, as well as others in the region, was discovered in the 20th century. It, along with the others, contained funerary urns stuffed with the cremated ashes and bone fragments of young children. Over 20,000 urns buried under stelae (stone slabs with inscriptions) were found at the tophet in Carthage, which is one of the largest cemeteries from the Phoenician period. 
These findings and subsequent research, which included referencing accounts in ancient texts, propelled the theory that infants were sacrificed and cremated as part of a ritual to give thanks for favors from deities, mainly the goddess Tanit and the god Baal. 
For many years, the rumors that the ancient Carthaginians had sacrificed their own young was considered to be propaganda spread by the Greeks and Romans, who disliked them and the wider Phoenician civilization.  
Over the decades, several groups of historians have debated the subject, but they have yet to reach a concrete answer. Most recently, a team led by an Oxford historian ruled there was strong evidence that ritual sacrifices did, in fact, take place. It wasn’t an isolated incident either—it happened over several centuries.
Today, the tombstones and ritual altars form part of a historical site outside the capital city of Tunis, which was granted World Heritage status in 1979. The cemetery, a hybrid of a sanctuary and a necropolis, forms a striking picture. When it was at its largest, it was over 64,000 square feet and spanned nine different levels. 
The word “tophet” comes from a place described in Hebrew scripture, where people who were influenced by an ancient Canaanite religion burned and sacrificed children to their gods. It’s also another term for hell.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tunis Medina
Description: The ancient heart of Tunis is an enormous maze of narrow streets and alleyways.
Content: For over 1,300 years, Tunis Medina has remained bustling, but mostly unknown. Certainly, this is one of the busiest locations in the whole country. Every day, thousands of people go about their shopping, pray at one of the many mosques hidden deep within, and down strong shots of Tunisian espresso (or tiny cups of sugary mint tea). But, apart from a small handful of well-trodden lane-ways, the majority of the Tunis Medina remains mysterious and rarely visited by outsiders.
Medina of Tunis (“medina” meaning “town” in Arabic) was founded during the seventh century around the site of enormous Al-Zaytuna Mosque. This is the second oldest mosque in Tunisia, constructed during the earliest days of Islam, and the Zaytuna Mosque defined the Medina area as an important cultural center, school, and university. Slowly, organically, over many centuries, the town around Zaytuna grew and expanded to become the Medina of Tunis.
A UNESCO World Heritage site, and well-known due to the central location, to this day the Medina of Tunis remains genuinely a city-within-a-city. It’s not only a place for shopping and eating—it’s a neighborhood home for many residents. The internal Medina streets may be difficult to navigate, but having “outsiders” wandering through is part and parcel of living here. This is a neighborhood that’s used to living close to the action.
You’re most likely to enter Tunis Medina by moving through the Place de la Victoire, an open square dotted with fountains, restaurants, cafes, and the Bab el Bhar gate (do check out the small “sea-level” marker on the side of the gate). Within moments, the “European” styled city ends abruptly, and you’re in another world filed narrow alleys, twisting, turning, and undulating, mostly covered but not always.
During the day, Medina is truly a sight to behold. Thousands of shops line streets dedicated to selling specific items—jewelry street, wedding gifts street, woodworkers street, there’s even a covered alley with vendors specializing in making only chechias, burgundy-red cylindrical felt hats. In between, there’s restaurants, street-food, offices, apartments, a hotel or two, and countless paths you could take to see it all.
As the sun sets, a new reality sets in. Every evening, like clockwork, most of the Medina is abandoned. It’s dark (there’s a near-total lack of lighting), and nearly impossible to navigate for anyone other than those most familiar with the layout. Most of the locals leave, or move to the wider open areas of Medina. The keen remainders catch up with friends, chat, drink coffee and tea, and smoke hookah before heading home and doing it all again the next day.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dougga
Description: The best-preserved Roman small town in North Africa.
Content: Some call it Dougga, some call it Thugga. Either way, its pristine preservation has earned it World Heritage Site status from the UNESCO.
It sits on a craggy hillside, perched above fertile hills of groves in central Tunisia. Despite its status as a preserved Roman town, the settlement is actually quite a bit older than that: The discovery of dolmens (Bronze Age burial structures) within the city limits indicates a human presence since at least 2000 BCE. Though most of what remains of the city is from the Roman era, there are several significant Numidian structures, including the Punic-Libyan Mausoleum. It was during this time that the site was known as Thugga.
The site owes its state of preservation to remoteness and lack of modern encroachment. Among its structures is a theater that could seat practically the entire population of the town—around 3,500. There is also a circus for chariot racing, a large villa, several baths dating from 300 CE, and two triumphal arches.
The site contained a large number of elaborate mosaic floors. (Some are in situ but most are housed in the Bardo Museum in Tunis.) Most notable of all, however, are the twenty temples found, a truly disproportionate number of temples for the size of the population. At first it was thought that Dougga was a major religious site, but it has since been decided that the temples were erected by wealthy residents as tribute for their good fortune.
The most famous and most photographed of these temples is the Capitol, built in the 2nd century CE. It’s dedicated to Rome’s protective triad: Jupiter, Juno and Minerva. The capitol is exceptionally well preserved, owing to its inclusion within a later Byzantine fortification. Visitors to the site can wander through the hilly, cobblestoned streets and take in the serene atmosphere. Aside from the major sites, there is an interesting group latrine (the more, the merrier!).
----------------------------------------
Title: Dar El Annabi
Description: This museum in the famously blue neighborhood of Sidi Bou Saïd showcases a traditional Tunisian lifestyle.
Content: Approximately 20 kilometers (12 miles) from Tunis, the town of Sidi Bou Saïd sits atop a cliff overlooking Carthage and the Gulf of Tunis. A residential suburbs with about 6,000 inhabitants, it is a fairly popular tourist spot in Tunisia. But unlike other destinations like the Antonine Baths or the Medina, Sidi Bou Saïd’s main attraction lies not in its history or the lively Middle Eastern atmosphere, but simply in its gorgeous appearance. 
Many of the houses in Sidi Bou Saïd are adorned with blue-and-white walls and doors with Islamic decorative patterns. These residences, some of which date back to the 18th century, are nestled among Mediterranean cafes, market squares, narrow alleys, and flight after flight of steps. One of the elegant houses, Dar El Annabi, has been turned into a museum where visitors can see a slice of life in Sidi Bou Saïd.
Dar El Annabi  was originally built near the end of the 18th century. In the 20th century, it was redeveloped as a summer resort for Taib El Annabi, son of Mufti Mohamed Annabi. It is now a museum showing the typical Islamic architecture on the outside and the atmosphere and lifestyle of a traditional Tunisian family on the inside. Visitors can go inside and explore the private library, prayer hall, lounges, bedrooms, the Andalusian garden, and terraces that offer a view of the surrounding terraces.
Since the 19th century, Sidi Bou Saïd has attracted a number of artists, musicians, writers and philosophers, including Michel Foucault, Alphonse de Lamartine, François-René de Chateaubriand, Gustave Flaubert, Andre Gide, Simone de Beauvoir, Colette, and even the infamous occultist Aleister Crowley.
The history of Sidi Bou Saïd goes back to the ancient times, when the Carthaginians and Romans used the cliff to establish a watchtower. The 11th-century Almoravids used the site for the same purpose, calling it Djebel al-Manar, or “the Mountain of Fire.” A couple of centuries later, the town welcomed Sunni saint Abu Said ibn Khalef ibn Yahia Al-Tamimi Al-Baji, more commonly Sidi Bou Saïd, who taught Sufism on a nearby hill. After his death, his name was given to the settlement.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sidi Bouhlel
Description: A seemingly simple canyon that was the backdrop to a number of famous movies.
Content: Sidi Bouhlel is a ravine near the town of Tozeur in Tunisia that would not even be remembered if it were not for all of the Star Wars scenes that were shot in its depths.
The canyon takes its name from a nearby marabout (a shrine built to honor a holy man) of the same name, although it is more commonly known as the “Star Wars Canyon.” The shady divide acted as a number of locations in Star Wars: A New Hope during scenes on the desert planet of Tatooine. The kidnapping of R2-D2 and the rescue of Luke Skywalker by Obi-Wan Kenobi were all shot at the bottom of the stony ravine.
In addition to Star Wars, the location was also featured in other films such as Raiders of the Lost Ark and The English Patient, but most of the visitors to the site are simply looking to make a pilgrimage to a galaxy far, far away.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hotel du Lac
Description: Some believe this abandoned Brutalist masterpiece inspired George Lucas's Sandcrawler.
Content: Envisaged and designed by the Italian architect Raffaele Contigiani, Hotel Du Lac was constructed between 1970 and 1973 for the Tunisian government during the middle of the reign of Habib Bourguiba, Tunisia’s first president. The structure is not only an icon of Tunis city, as it is well-known among lovers of Brutalist architecture around the world.
With its sharp geometry and imposing inverted pyramid shape, the abandoned hotel dominates the ville nouvelle area of Tunis. A contemporary architectural icon of North Africa (with much more than a pinch of raw-concrete Brutalism), Hotel Du Lac is not just your usual 10-floor/416-room hotel. The mind-bending, uniquely cantilevered design results in a top floor that’s double the length of the ground floor.
Fans of the Star Wars movie franchise will certainly find some familiarity with the silhouette of the hotel. Indeed, the first movie in the series was filmed nearby in Tunisia during 1976 (Episode IV - A New Hope). Perhaps it’s just mere coincidence that the “Sandcrawler,” a huge mobile fortress in the movie, is designed with a near-identical shape to the extraordinary Hotel Du Lac? Or, that the Sandcrawler slowly makes its way through the sandy dunes of a remote planet called “Tatooine” (while back in real life, a nearby area of Tunisia is named “Tataouine”)?
Either way, fans continue to debate whether or not Hotel du Lac was actually an inspiration for the Sandcrawler design. Notably, various members of the crew who worked on the original Star Wars film in 1975 through 1976 have made contradicting statements on the matter. So, let’s put Star Wars fans aside, as lovers of all things Brutalist firmly agree that Hotel du Lac is one of the most important (and coolest) examples of the Brutalistalism anywhere on the planet.
Unfortunately, Hotel du Lac fell into disrepair and closed in the year 2000. Since 2002, it’s been completely abandoned. More recently, the hotel was sold to Libyan investors. As of summer 2019, the combination of its prime central location, growing levels of tourist numbers, the enormous cost of renovation, and the need to recoup the huge investment means that Hotel du Lac seemingly faces destruction.
The future may be uncertain, but Hotel du Lac remains extant, either as a symbol of a new independent Tunisia or one of the last marks of the colonial age. That’s probably up to each observer to decide for themselves.
----------------------------------------
Title: Great Mosque of Kairouan
Description: Founded in 670, this ancient mosque is an architectural time portal.
Content: As you wander the grounds of the Great Mosque of Kairouan in Tunisia you are treading across over a millennia of history. The magnificent structure — the oldest Muslim place of worship in Africa, founded in the year 670 — illustrates the mixed influences of pre-Islamic, Roman, and Byzantine architecture.
The city of Kairouan, Tunisia, has long been the Maghreb’s most ancient and holy city, a key gathering place for Arabo-Muslim civilization. The Great Mosque, also known as the Uqba Mosque, is at the heart of the city’s heritage. Standing at the nexus of 15 different thoroughfares, in the center of the country between the mountains and the sea, it is considered the fourth holiest site in Islam after Mecca, Medina and Jerusalem.
The structure is part of an expansive complex, the mosque itself covering 10,800 square meters (115,660 square feet). Within, there is a prayer room with 17 naves supported by carved columns, as well as the finely decorated mihrab, a special niche indicating the direction of mecca, outfitted in marble panels and luster tiles covered in floral patterns. There is also a pool, known as the Old Cistern (Al-Majal al-Qadim), and what is said to be the oldest surviving minbar—a finely carved wooden pulpit of Asian teak.
Outside, there is a decorated flagstone courtyard and towering, three-story minaret, reminiscent of Roman lighthouses. At 32 meters (104 feet), it remains one of the city’s highest structures. The mosque’s architecture reflects features of pre-Islamic and Eastern Islamic art, as well as later Roman and Byzantine influences. The design has served as a model for many other Maghreb mosques.
The mosque was originally constructed by a general named Uqba ibn Nafi (also written as Sidi Okba) as a Friday Mosque (masjid-i jami` or jami`), used for communal prayers on the Muslim holy day. Though the structure built by Uqba no longer exists, the mosque we see today is sometimes still called “Mosque of Sidi Uqba” or simply, Uqba Mosque. 
The mosque was rebuilt at least twice in the 8th century, and then again in the 9th century, when Prince Ziyadat Allah I, the Aghlabid governor, demolished most of the existing structure and rebuilt the mosque in sturdier materials of stone, brick, and wood. The surviving version includes a dome—borrowed from Roman and Byzantine architecture—and supporting buttresses, added in the 13th century.
The mosque sits between the city’s Rue de la Kasbah and the Rue el Farabi, in the historic walled district of the Medina. The holy structure is beautiful both during the day and at night, when the minaret is aglow with lights.
----------------------------------------
Title: Byrsa Hill
Description: An ancient Phoenician citadel once stood at the site where Queen Dido first landed, according to legend.
Content: According to Virgil’s The Aeneid, the ancient Phoenician city of Carthage was founded by the Tyrian princess Elissa, better known as Dido. After her brother, King Pygmalion, exiled her from her homeland, Dido sailed westward with her loyal vassals. She arrived at the North African coast and encamped on a hill overlooking what would become Carthage. The hill, which came to be known as Byrsa, was the site of a walled citadel that was the center of Carthage’s military power.
As the story goes, after Dido arrived the local Berber chieftain came to her offering as much land as a single oxhide could cover. The clever princess cut the oxhide into tiny strips and placed them on the ground end to end, encircling the entire hill. Apocryphally, this is said to be the origin of  the name Byrsa, which sounds similar to a Greek word meaning “oxhide.”
In reality, the story of Carthage is older than its association with the Hellenistic world. The city was founded around 814 B.C. in what is now Tunisia. As for the naming of Byrsa, there are theories more plausible than the version told in The Aeneid. The name may be a corruption of Phoenician barsat, which means “stronghold,” or it could be related to the Semitic word bostra (cliff) or Akkadian birtu (fortress).
The citadel on Byrsa Hill dominated the city below, and was the keystone of its military and defense. During the Third Punic War (149–146 B.C.), the Roman general Scipio Aemilianus Africanus besieged the hill and defeated Carthage. For some time afterwards, the Roman Empire occupied the Byrsa citadel as the seat of proconsul of Africa. Carthage was then invaded and taken possession of by the 5th-century barbarian king Geiseric, who established the Vandal Kingdom’s capital on Byrsa Hill; the Vandals were defeated a century later by the Byzantine emperor Justinian.
In 1884, Saint Louis Cathedral was constructed atop the ruins of an ancient temple dedicated to Eshmun, the Punic god of healing, on the peak of Byrsa Hill. A Roman Catholic church built in Byzantine-Moorish style, its usage as a place of worship was discontinued in 1964. Today it is known as the Acropolium, where public events and concerts of traditional Tunisian music are held from time to time.
The Carthage National Museum, which was founded in 1875, is also located on top of Byrsa Hill. It is home to a large collection of Punic and Roman artifacts from Carthage’s bygone days.
----------------------------------------
Title: Chott el Djerid
Description: The largest salt lake in the Sahara is mysteriously alluring.
Content: Chott el Djerid (also known as Chott El-Jerid, and several other variations of spelling) is a great salt lake located in the Tunisian part of the Sahara desert. It’s known to be the largest salt lake in the Sahara, and depending on your sources, it’s also the largest salt lake on the African continent. With a surface area of more than 2,700 square miles, Chott el Djerid is over 1.5 times larger than the Great Salt Lake of Utah.
The name of this lake consists of two parts: in Northern Africa, chott describes a lake that dries out in summer and usually has at least some water in it in colder seasons; el djerid is an Arabic word meaning “palm leaf” (the nearby el Djerid region in South Western Tunisia  holds 15 times more date palm trees than its human population). Chott el Djerid is (mostly) an enormous plain with a harsh desert climate and almost total lack of natural resources—including fresh water. It’s a difficult place to live, but traveling though is a different story. The barrenness could be safely described as mysteriously alluring, even beautiful.
Driving across the main road that runs from the southern rim to point north-west, it’s impossible not to stop and admire the rainbow-colored salt deposits and small lakes that have water even in the driest summer days. Unexpectedly, the salty water varies in color from light green to gentle pink and vibrant orange. At the end of the lake, you will end up at a location holding many date palm oases.
Chott el Djerid is situated near to the city of Douz, dubbed the “gateway to the Sahara.” A naturally spectacular back-drop, the salt lake has been used (alongside with the surrounding canyons and dunes) as a filming location for a range of movies. The Lars Family Homestead from the Star Wars series is located on the northwestern tip of the lake, right next to the town of Nafta, and Mos Espa from the same movie saga is less than 10 miles north from there.
Very much pre-dating modern film-lore, Chott el Djerid is considered to be the most viable candidate for the ancient lake Tritonis mentioned in Greek mythology. Tritonis is the birthplace of the goddess named Athena, and somewhat ironically, the name Tritonis was given after another Greek god, Triton, known as the Greek god of the sea.
----------------------------------------
