Title: Gcwihaba Caverns
Description: Wondrous stalactites house thousands of bats in these African caves.
Content: Far off the beaten path, accessible only 4x4 in fact, are Botswana’s Gcwihaba Caverns, a fantastical series of caverns filled with stalactites, stalagmites, and bats. Thousands of bats.  
Once a potential explorer reaches the isolated Gcwihaba Caverns, it is not a challenging descent in terms of spelunking, but it has unique challenges of its own.  Even the Botswana tourism website warns to be prepared for a storm of flying mammals if you make too much noise. 
The main chamber of the dolomite caves, named Drotsky’s Cavern after the the first European to be shown the cave in 1934, is a massive clearing in the stone in which bats hang from all the walls. The cave systems are home to at least three distinct species of bat, all of which are harmless, but all of which inhabit the caves in force.
Archeological artifacts have also been found in and around the caves, suggesting that they were once used as shelter for prehistoric man.
----------------------------------------
Title: African Quadripoint
Description: There is only one place in the world where the corners of four nations come together.
Content: There are a number of instances where the borders of two or three nations touch, but the rare confluence of a total four nations coming together on one spot only exists in Africa where the corners of Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, and Namibia meet. 
Unlike the touristy spots where states come together in America, which are usually decked out with monuments and bronze medallions, the African quadripoint sits in the middle of a river that cuts between the countries. It has been theorized that the point is not a true quadripoint but instead a pair of tri-points separated by thin strips of real estate. Regardless of the quibbling, the obvious jurisdictional headache of having four countries so close to one another has resulted in some conflict.
At one point the ferry that carried people across the river from Namibia to Botswana became a point of contention, with both countries laying claim to the transport. A small amount of fighting broke out but it was rather subdued for an international incident.
While many maintain that slight changes in the flow of the Zambezi river and the exact geographical borders have eliminated an actual quadripoint, the countries are all so close that the only difference is academic.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kubu Island
Description: An enchanting rocky island of scraggly baobabs surrounded by an ancient sea and sprawling salt pans.
Content: Rising like the grey-colored humps of hippo wallowing in muddy water, Kubu Island is a fitting name for the mounds of rock that lie almost smack bang in the middle of Botswana’s Makgadikgadi Salt Pans. “Kubu” is the local Setswana word for hippopotamus and besides describing the island’s physical characteristics, the local lingo for this popular off-roading destination also alludes to its surprising watery history.
Although the rocky outcrop is roughly 30 feet high, the summit of Kubu Island is enough to offer panoramic views across the vast plains surrounding it. Turn in a 360-degree circle and you cannot see any other civilization, only an infinite white horizon. This total lack of human habitation also makes this great white space a top location for uninterrupted stargazing. 
Geologically speaking, these sprawling salt flats bear proof that this was once a prehistoric lake. The water that now feeds the Okavango Delta, all the way from Angola in the north used to spill over here, but tectonic activity shifted the waters away leaving today’s travelers with the only desert. Look closely at some of the seemingly whitewashed rocks. Experts say this is actually fossilized guano from waterbirds that once perched along the edge of the Great Makgadigadi Lake.
----------------------------------------
Title: Makgadikgadi Salt Pans
Description: Spanning over 10,000 square miles, this ancient salt pan is one of the largest on the planet.
Content: Before the last ice age, Lake Makgadikgadi covered a large area in what is now northern Botswana. Fed by the Nata and Boteti rivers, this lake had no natural outflow. As a result, salts gradually built up in low-lying areas. Then, nearly 10,000 years ago, the climate in southern Africa changed significantly, and the lake dried up, leaving behind a series of salt pans covering over almost 10,000 square miles, making the Makgadikgadi pans arguably the largest network of salt flats in the world. 
The pans are vast, desolate, and inhospitable. Still, life persists. They are one of two breeding spots for flamingos in southern Africa, and summer rains briefly flood the pan and bring a variety of wildlife to the previously lifeless plain.  While the pans are a “salty desert,” where only certain types of algae can be found, there are grasslands and shrubbery surrounding the area.  Archaeological evidence suggests that early homo sapiens may have even resided in the area for a while, although it is hard to imagine how, or if, they thrived there.
The pans also served as a major obstacle to missionaries pushing north in Africa. Still, despite the interactions different people have had with the pans, the Makgadikgadi salt flats remain relatively undisturbed.  The salt pans are very inhospitable, and so human interaction has been minimal in comparison to other natural salt sources across the world.  
There are threats to the pan though.  In 1991, commercial operations to extract salt began, and there were plans made to divert water from the Nata River for irrigation, something that would cause a severe threat to the small and unusual (but not unimportant!) ecosystem.
----------------------------------------
Title: Matsieng Footprints
Description: Local legend has it that the first humans were created in the pools here, leaving their footprints behind in the rock.
Content: The creation story told among the peoples of what is now southeastern Botswana involves a great hunter named Matsieng. Some versions say he was a one-legged giant; other versions say he had two legs. All versions, though, describe how he emerged one day from a waterhole, followed by his animals and then by his people, and strode off with them across the wet earth to settle the surrounding lands.
The Matsieng Footprints are a petroglyphic record of this cultural tradition. The footprints are located on a flat expanse of sandstone with several large natural holes that act as excellent basins for collecting rainwater. Thus, humans have been visiting the site frequently for millennia to fill vessels or water their livestock. Over time, the soft sandstone has accrued a collection of some 170 carvings depicting human feet (gigantic and non-gigantic alike) as well as animal feet (frequently feline) and animals in profile (such as giraffes).
These petroglyphs— dating from 3,000 to 10,000 years ago—represent the impressions Matsieng and company left on the soft, unformed early earth as the emerged from the waterholes, designating the place as a creation site in local folklore.
Many of the carvings have been worn down by exposure to the elements and regular watering of livestock, which was only recently discontinued. It remains an important ritual site, particularly for conducting rain-making ceremonies.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kebokwe's Cave
Description: The historic cave is both a symbol of superstition and black magic and inspired one of the early Christian converts in Botswana.
Content: Kebokwe’s Cave (Legaga la ga Kobokwe in Setswana) plays a dual role in the mythology of Botswana: It is both a foreboding symbol of superstition and black magic, but also as an essential part of the founding of Christianity in the country.
The cave is perched in the hills overlooking the village of Molepolole on the Thamaga Road. Local legend states that it was an execution site for practitioners of black magic, who were pushed off the execution rock nearby, though historians think this is unlikely.
So the story goes, a witch named Kebokwe was thrown from these rocks and used her magic to land unharmed. Since that time, dark spirits taking the form of giant snakes have haunted the cave and the surrounding hills. Regardless of its veracity, this legend was alive and well when David Livingstone, the famous physician, missionary, and explorer, arrived in Kolobeng in 1847. He convinced the Kgosi of the Bakwena, Sechele I, to convert to Christianity by spending a night in the cave to prove that the spirits could not harm him. After a restful night, Sechele became Livingstone’s only convert to Christianity. 
These days, the cave serves as a curiosity spot for tourists, and a pilgrimage for the faithful in Botswana. After turning off the highway, there is a 15 minute scramble up a well-used path to the cave. A Botswana Heritage sign marks the beginning of the path. The approach is littered with the remains of candles from midnight prayers, and the cave itself is rather small, but always cool with a breeze coming from deep in its chambers. From the nearby execution rocks, there is a view of the bush in the direction of Thamaga and Kanye.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Three Dikgosi
Description: This trio of bronze giants celebrate the influential trip to Britain that led to Botswana's independence.
Content: Standing proudly in a Botswana square, the trio of massive bronze figures known as the Three Dikgosi forever look out across the country whose independence they helped maintain. 
In 1885 three tribal chiefs representing the people of Botswana, Sebele I, Bathoen I, and Khama III, traveled from their African nation to plead with the Queen. At the time Botswana (then the Bechuanaland Protectorate) was in danger of being incorporated in the exploitative British South Africa Company, and the tribal leaders set out to do something about it. Traveling to Britain, they pled their case and the nation was put under the control of the crown. It was not exactly freedom, but it was more appealing than the alternative. However it was this separation that would later keep the country from being included in South African apartheid.   
While their role in Botswana’s history is a controversial one, the leaders were commemorated in 2005 with the Three Dikgosi monument. Each of the leaders is depicted in regal bronze, 18 feet tall. Their granite stands bear their names and informational plaques tell of their achievements. 
Adding to the controversial legacy of the leaders, the monument also drew criticism for the North Korean labor used in its creation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sibebe Rock
Description: This granite mountain is the largest rock in Africa and the second-largest monolith in the world.
Content: At more than 3,000 feet (around 800 meters) tall, Sibebe Rock is the largest granite pluton in the world and the second-largest monolithic rock. This impressive slab of volcanic rock is a staggering three billion years old and is one of the most important geological sites in Africa. 
Located a little over four miles (eight kilometers) from the capital of Mbabane, along the Pine Valley Road, the rock covers around 16,500 hectares. There are no perfect views of the entire rock from below, making it hard to appreciate its scale. A hike up to the viewing spot is the best way to view the monolith.
It’s not safe to scale the rock itself due to its sheer face, instead, you can pick up a guide at the visitor center. The guide will take you up a steep and strenuous climb along nearby paths, which can be hard to find alone.
Along the hike is a wonderful meadow. During the spring it’s carpeted with flowers and visitors may even spot the occasional wild horse. Scattered around the site are granite boulders of various sizes. The entire hike offers spectacular views of Sibebe Rock itself and Eswatini.
Also at the top are a set of caves that are home to raptors and other birds.
----------------------------------------
Title: British Royal Party Platform
Description: This dais was said to be a remote toilet built for the convenience of the British Royal Party on their brief, and only, visit to this small African nation in 1947. But is the story true?
Content: It has been reported that this small structure was a bathroom was specially built for the convenience of the British Royal Party on the only, very brief, royal visit to Swaziland (since renamed Eswatini) on March 25, 1947. The Royal party had traveled by train to the town of Piet Retief in South Africa, the nearest railhead, and thence by road to the nearest Swazi town, then named Goedgegun, where they were met by the Swazi king, Sobhuza II, and his consort, the Ndlovukati (the “She-elephant,” a Siswati title for a female monarch). To accommodate the crowds, the meeting took place on the sixth hole of the local golf course. It had reportedly been realized that there were no facilities on the site and a small single-seat toilet was apparently quickly built by the Public Works Department.
However, this is not a photograph of a royal loo—it is a photo of the dais that was used by the royal party for a review of the local troops and the subsequent presentation of medals. Photos of the event can be seen here.
King Sobhuza II accompanied King George VI, the Queen, and Princess Elizabeth to inspect the Swazi warriors. The entire Royal visit, the only ever visit by a British monarch to Swaziland, lasted just an hour and a half and the members of the Royal party were whisked back to South Africa and their next engagement.
King Sobhuza II accompanied King George VI, the Queen, and Princess Elizabeth to inspect the Swazi warriors. The entire Royal visit, the only ever visit by a British monarch to Swaziland, lasted just an hour and a half, and the members of the Royal party were whisked back to South Africa and their next engagement. The old dais still stands, now somewhat neglected, on the outskirts of the town, which has since been renamed Nhlangano (meaning ‘the meeting place of kings’ in siSwati, the local language).
----------------------------------------
Title: Ha Kome Cave Dwellings
Description: An 18th-century hideout became a permanent and ongoing residence for one Lesotho tribe.
Content: The cliff overhangs of Ha Kome are a series of cave dwellings an hour’s drive from Maseru, the capital of Lesotho. While their exact history is unknown, the current inhabitants are descended from Basia tribesmen and women who first made the overhang home in the late 1800s. 
The Mefcane (“the Crushing”) was a period of intense socio-political unrest during the 1820s and 30s throughout southern Africa, defined by widespread drought, forced migration, and inter-tribal warfare. To flee the ongoing violence, the Basia began using the overhang as a hideout at some point in the late 1800s, though trademark cave paintings indicate San Bushmen dwelt here even earlier. 
In time, the Basia came to build homes out of mud, which have been continuously occupied since then. Today, several families who live in these dwellings welcome visitors into their homes.
----------------------------------------
Title: Subeng River Dinosaur Prints
Description: Take a step into the Cretaceous Period with these preserved dinosaur tracks.
Content: Just over two hours from the city of Maseru, the narrow Subeng River in northern Lesotho has been home to a series of fossilized dinosaur prints for hundreds of millions of years. The reward for wading across the shallow water is a chance to get up close and personal with the tracks of several types of dinos, including the unique three-toed prints of the chicken-sized Lesothosaurus.
The fossilized footprints were first identified as dinosaur tracks in 1955. Footprints from at least three species of dinosaurs, possibly more, can be found at this site. In the preserved tracks, you can see that some had five toes on their feet, while others had three. By placing their hands down on the rocks, a visitor can instantly bridge the gap between the Cretaceous and the present.
----------------------------------------
Title: Masitise Cave House Museum
Description: This odd little home was built right into an African rock face.
Content: Built directly into the rock, the Masitise Cave House Museum is the former private home of Revered David-Frederic Ellenberger, a Swiss missionary.
Ellenberger created the small residence in 1867 after he and his family were forced further South by the Basotho-Boar War. Ellenberger found a well-known cave in the rocky mountains of Lesotho and decided it was the perfect spot to found his new church, and bring God to the people of the country. The missionary built a brick edifice on to the opening of the cave and spent 55 years ministering to the peoples of the area. The cave had previously been used as a shelter for the local tribes, but soon became a beacon of Christianity.
In addition to its half-natural construction the cave house also had a handful of other features. There is a dinosaur track in the ceiling and it is said that Ellenberger’s son is entombed in the wall.    
The home is now a small museum holding an eclectic group of objects, including family photos, traditional clothing, taxidermied animals, and of course a dinosaur footprint in the ceiling.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lion Rock Mountain
Description: Just outside Lesotho's capital city, a rock formation takes the shape of a powerful predator.
Content: Less than a 30-minute drive from the heart of Maseru stands one of the most unique rock formations in the world. Lion Rock Mountain might only rise a few hundred meters above the horizon, but it still somehow manages to create an amazing landscape, something straight out of The Lion King. If you’re headed away from the capital en route to Lesotho’s more remote attractions, a quick stop here is sure to fill you with wonder and inspiration.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ha Baroana Cave Paintings
Description: The walls of this sandstone outcropping are covered with 2,000-year-old artwork.
Content: Deep in the cradle of civilization, you can still find traces of our ancient ancestors. Lesotho’s amazing Ha Baroana site is only an hour’s drive from the capital of Maseru, and on the far side of the Liphiring River, tucked inconspicuously beneath a black-and-tan cave, sit a remarkably preserved stretch of paintings.
The walls of Ha Baroana, which translates as “home of the bushmen,” are decorated with paintings of animals like leopards, lions, antelope, cranes, and guinea fowls, as well as paintings of people hunting and dancing. It has been estimated that the paintings were made about 2,000 years ago by the San people, a group of hunter-gatherers who have inhabited southern Africa for thousands of years, long before the arrival of Bantu-speaking nations.
Though the paintings are faded from years of exposure to the elements, it’s still possible to make out a series of hunting scenes, a sight that is sure to give even the most jaded wanderer chills.
----------------------------------------
Title: Thaba Bosiu Cultural Village
Description: This sandstone plateau once served as a stronghold for Lesotho's King Moshoeshoe I and his subjects.
Content: More than a museum, more than a cultural center, Thaba Bosiu would be best described as the pride of Lesotho.  Featuring a full-scale recreation of a traditional village as well as a fascinating museum, this flagship tourist attraction is a must-visit on your first trip to the Mountain Kingdom. A blanket-clad guide is available on request, and their tour will change the way you view this fascinating enclave country.
Thaba Bosiu is a sandstone plateau located between the Orange and Caledon Rivers in the Maseru District of Lesotho. It was once the capital of Lesotho, and served as the residence and military stronghold of Moshoeshoe I, the kingdom’s founding father, throughout most of his reign in the mid-19th century. In 1967, Lesotho’s government declared the mountain a national monument.
----------------------------------------
Title: Basotho Hat
Description: Not only does this shop sell mokorotlo, the traditional hat of Lesotho, the building is shaped like one.
Content: The Basotho people comprise 99 percent of Lesotho’s population, so it seems fitting that the remote enclave country’s only official Visitor’s Center was fashioned after their traditional straw hat.
The hat has a wide brim and a pointed top, a design that is said to be inspired by the shape of Mount Qiloane. A similar style of hat was worn by Basotho tribal chiefs, who performed a type of song known as mokorotlo at certain ceremonies. In the 1950s and 60s, the hats became popular among the wider population, and were called mokorotlo because of their connection to Basotho identity. It became such an important symbol that when Lesotho gained independence from Great Britain in 1966, it was selected to appear on the country’s new flag.
Basotho Hat is a two-story arts and crafts collective that hosts a wide assortment of baskets and weavings, all of which were manufactured throughout the Mountain Kingdom. It’s a great way to support local businesses in a place where the average salary is less than $2 USD per day.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kolmanskop Ghost Town
Description: The remains of diamond fever taken over by the desert.
Content: People flocked to what became known as Kolmanskop, Namibia, after the discovery of diamonds in the area in 1908 by Zacharias Lewala, a railway worker, who picked up what he thought was an unusually shiny stone, and showed it to his supervisor. 
The supervisor, August Stauch, immediately applied for a prospector’s license, and verification confirmed that the first diamond in the region had been found. The diamonds were in such supply that they could be picked off the ground by bare hands, and soon the area was flooded with men wanting to make their fortune.
As people arrived with high hopes, houses and other key buildings were built. The new town, which was German-influenced, saw the construction of ballrooms, casinos, theaters, ice factories, and hospitals, as well as the first X-ray station in the southern hemisphere.
Prior to World War I, over 2000 pounds (1000 kilos) of diamonds were sifted from the sands of the Namib desert, and Kolmanskop became a diamond boom town. During the war, however, the price of diamonds dropped considerably. On top of this, larger diamonds were later found south of Kolmanskop, in Oranjemund. People picked up and chased after the precious stones. By 1956, the town was completely abandoned.
Today, the eerie ghost town is a popular tourist destination. Guided tours take visitors around the town and through the houses which, today, are filled only with sand.
----------------------------------------
Title: Eduard Bohlen Shipwreck
Description: Far from the shore, this sandy victim of the Skeleton Coast looks like it was plopped in the middle of the desert.
Content: The Skeleton Coast is a strip of desolate, unforgiving earth; a place where parched desert dunes ripple toward the Atlantic Ocean. Sailors, having wrecked their vessels in the heavy fog that spills off the land most mornings, found themselves trading life at sea for a hot, hellish terrain.
One particular shipwreck feels like a fitting reminder of the coast’s foreboding loneliness. Trapped within a veil of thick fog, the Eduard Bohlen ran aground along Namibia’s Skeleton Coast on September 5th, 1909. The 310-foot-long cargo ship now lies partially buried beneath the sand, destined never to complete its journey from Swakopmund to Table Bay.
Strangely, the ship appears to be stranded within the middle of the desert. In the years after it sank, the desert began encroaching upon the shoreline. It’s more than 1,000 feet away from the water, making it a must-see for wreck enthusiasts, history buffs, and intrepid desert explorers alike. Wind-whipped waves of sand have replaced the ocean water that once lapped at its rusting remains. Jackals occasionally hole up inside when seeking refuge from the relentless sun.
The Skeleton Coast has become an unplanned ship graveyard of sorts, dooming the vessels and their sailors to a dry desert end. Shipwrecks litter the land around the Eduard Bohlen. Some still remain within the ocean’s grasp, while others are now no more than a few pieces of wood poking out from the sand.
----------------------------------------
Title: Namib Sand Sea
Description: A desert that rolls right up to the ocean, where it's so dry animals live off the fog.
Content: The beautiful red sand of the Namib Sand Sea flows right up to the actual waves of the ocean.
It’s one of the world’s only coastal deserts, with dune fields winding over its three million hectares. There are two dune systems at work here, one that is ancient and one that is young. It’s also known as the world’s oldest desert, believed to have been formed by the erosion of materials from thousands of kilometers away. While it is incredibly arid, with fog as the primary source of water, the desert still boasts a wide array of endemic wildlife, including the Welwitschia plant, the Dune Lark, and various reptiles and invertebrates. 
The Namib Sand Sea was named an UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2013.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dead Vlei
Description: This "dead marsh" sits among the largest sand dunes in the world, a forest frozen in time.
Content: Among the towering red dunes of Namib-Naukluft National Park in the central Namib Desert is an area known as Sossusvlei. It is a strange and alien landscape. The rich red dunes that surround the area owe their hue to age—over the thousands of years, the sand has literally rusted.
Sossusvlei is a wide, flat, salt-covered expanse with a dense and compact layer of clay in the subsoil. When dry, Sossusvlei is hard and arid, and when wet, as it gets every 5-10 years when fed by the Tsauchab River, it becomes sticky and plastic. The area is the river’s final destination. Even in the wettest of years, the water soaks into the salt/clay pan, giving the area its nickname: “place of no return.” Altogether the blue sky, red dunes, and white pans make a striking vision, reminiscent of movies such as The Fall, The Cell, and Steel Dawn.
Nearby is yet another “place of no return” this one even older, and much more dead than Sossusvlei. Known as Dead Vlei or “dead marsh” (vlei being Afrikaans for a type of marsh), it is found among the tallest dunes in the world—some reach 1,312 feet high, which is almost as lofty as the Empire State Building. Dead Vlei was once like Sossusvlei, with the river draining into it nourishing desert life and even trees. But no longer. Some 900 years ago the climate dried up, and dunes cut off Dead Vlei from the river.
It became too dry in Dead Vlei for the trees to even decompose. They simply scorched black in the sun, monuments to their own destruction. The trees, now over 1000 years old, form a barren forest. The area, however, is not entirely without life. Salsola shrubs and clumps of Nara melon stay alive by subsisting off of morning mists.
It is a 44-mile drive from the park gates to the dunes of Sossusvlei and Dead Vlei. One of the many reasons to go is to experience the sunrise (or sunset) over the huge red sand dunes of the Namib desert. The skies are among the clearest on the planet.
----------------------------------------
Title: Fairy Circles of Southern Africa
Description: Unexplained bald patches in the landscape grow and recede over time, as though they are somehow alive.
Content: They call them footprints of the gods.
Whether in the thickly tufted prairie grass of the southern plains or in the dry stalks of vegetation in the dusty foothills, something is happening in Southern Africa. It doesn’t really matter what the climate or soil conditions are, or who is there to see it or not, or what grazing pattern the local wildlife happens to follow. Rings are forming in the ground.
Perfectly round, almost too-good-to-be-true rings, in fact. But they are true, and they are naturally occurring, so far as anyone can tell. The small, circular patches of bare ground form like bald spots in the otherwise thick grass or fields in Namibia and South Africa, where humans often don’t set foot. Their mysterious origin has lead them to be called “Fairy Circles” colloquially, and legends ranging from local tales of god’s footprints to international recognition as a “UFO hot spot” have sprouted up in short order.
But the Fairy Circles are not grand designs like their distant paranormal cousins, crop circles, and bona fide scientific research has led to the conclusion that not only do they occur naturally, but they grow and shrink over time, as if they were alive. Examination of the soil in and around the circles reveals no abnormal insects or parasites, no unusual fungus to speak of. All science has discovered thus far is that they’re not a hoax.
Popular hypotheses about their cause include mold or spores that kill off the grass, the radiating pattern of growth of which would certainly explain the odd circular shape; or wind or soil erosion, which would do less to explain the patterns but has been observed elsewhere and found to cause “bald spots.”
For now, the odd formations are both intriguing and entertaining to nearby residents as well as botanists and UFO enthusiasts the world over. For all the predictable supernatural talk about the Fairy Circles occupying, representing or otherwise creating a path to another world, they do in fact occupy a strange and unreal dimension—that rare place and time after which a phenomenon has been discovered, but before it is blandly explained away like so many lights in the sky. For now, the only certainty is the mystery.
----------------------------------------
Title: Shipwreck Lodge
Description: Ten shipwreck-shaped chalets lie along the sand dunes on Namibia’s Skeleton Coast.
Content: Inspired by the shipwrecks that dot Namibia’s Skeleton Coast, the Shipwreck Lodge sits in one of the country’s most stunning but least visited national parks.
Namibia’s Skeleton Coast might not sound like a good place for a holiday. Portuguese sailors referred to the coast as “The Gates of Hell”. The indigenous people of the Namibian interior called it “The Land God Made in Anger.” And then there are the skeletons that give the region its name, initially derived from the whale and seal bones left on the shore by the whaling industry, and later associated with the skeletons of more than 1,000 shipwrecks that dot the region, victims of the coast’s rocks, fog and heavy surf.
Namibia itself has the second-lowest population density of any sovereign country (after Mongolia), and the Skeleton Coast is one of the least populated areas in the country. The climate, too, is not what you’d call hospitable. So, holiday anyone?
Well, the Shipwreck Lodge might well tempt you to visit this remote land of sand dunes and shipwrecks. Located between the Hoarusib and Hoanib rivers in Skeleton Coast National Park, the lodge features 10 chalets designed to resemble the shipwrecks that give the region its name.
Designed by Nina Maritz Architects and opened in 2018, the 10 cabins of the 20-bed luxury lodge were in part created to capture the “sense of harshness and desolation that shipwrecked passengers and sailors experienced in earlier times,” according to the architects. And building these lodges was no easy task. Being in the middle of nowhere was a logistical challenge, and then there was the incessant coastal wind, which continually blew sand away from the footings. Even now, frequent maintenance is required to make sure the cabins stay firmly affixed to their supporting poles embedded deep within the sand.
But don’t let all this desolation fool you: the Skeleton Coast certainly has its charms. As well as being a destination for adventurous shipwreck hunters, the Skeleton Coast National Park has plenty of wildlife spotting opportunities. The harsh but beautiful desert landscape is home to flora and fauna that have adapted to live in the extreme aridity, including plants and insects that depend on the thick sea fogs that roll across the coast. And the riverbeds further inland sustain giraffes, lions, brown hyenas, springbok and critically endangered black rhinoceros, all of whom get much of their water from wells dug by the local baboons and elephants.
A stay at the Shipwreck Lodge, therefore, isn’t just a chance to get a sense of shipwrecked isolation, albeit in a luxury hull-like cabin with an onsite restaurant handily eliminating the threat of starvation. When you’re not marveling at the sunset from atop one of the seemingly endless dunes, you can go wildlife spotting, fishing and, of course, shipwreck hunting.
----------------------------------------
Title: Hoba Meteorite
Description: The largest known meteorite on Earth was too big to move.
Content: As the largest known meteorite known on earth, you would think that this 60-ton iron-nickel meteorite would have left an immense blast crater when it fell to earth nearly 80 million years ago.
As you head down the dusty roads into the valley where the Farm Hoba is located, the black rock running through the sides of the surrounding hills look as if there was a massive explosion. No one is certain how the meteorite arrived in that spot; it may have bounced across the earth from the original impact site to its present site. The large cuboid shape (about 3-by-3 meters around and 1 meter high) was discovered in 1920 by the owner of the farm, Jacobus Hermanus Brits, when his plow struck it. Brits heard a metallic clang, and his oxen couldn’t pull the plow any further.
The American Museum of Natural History in New York City tried to purchase the meteorite in 1954 but couldn’t move it, and the site was declared a National Monument in 1955, though you couldn’t visit it until 1985. The site has now been improved with a pleasant grassy garden and picnic area, as well as easy access to the meteorite. It’s a joy to stand upon as you ponder the rock’s extraterrestrial origins, not to mention its incredible age: The meteorite is estimated to be between 200 and 400 million years old.
----------------------------------------
Title: Welwitschia
Description: Bizarre living fossil only grows in a small chunk of the Namib Desert.
Content: Stretching through Angola and Namibia on the southwest coast of Africa, the Namib Desert gets less than a half inch of rain per year. It’s a completely barren landscape, deathly hot and mostly devoid of life, save a little flora and fauna including a bizarre plant that can live for centuries in the arid Namib.
Known as the tweeblaarkanniedood (“two-leaf-cannot-die”) in Afrikaans, the easier-pronounced word for the plant is Welwitschia, named for the Austrian scientist who studied it in the mid-19th century. Although it almost looks dead, piled in a heap on the desert sand, Welwitschia is a powerfully-evolved survivor. Able to intake moisture from fog over the Namib, it can live for hundreds of years, and some of the oldest known Welwitschia are 2000 years old. What one sees above ground is only the tip of the iceberg so to speak, is actually a bizarre tree with a large, mostly underground taproot-like trunk with corky bark and high water storage capacity. The plant has only two strap-like leathery leaves, growing constantly from the same spot for the entirety of the plant’s life. These leaves split apart into smaller straps as they grow, giving the illusion of many leaves.
Apparently related to the conifers, welwitschia are dioceous, meaning that they grow as separate male and female plants. Welwitschias belong to a small order of gymnosperms (cone-bearers, Latin for “naked seed”) called gnetophytes. This order is comprised of three families Welwitschiaceae, Ephedraceae (the ephedra family), and Gnetaceae (the Gnetum family), and each of these families only have one genus, for which they are named. The gnetophyte order is believed by many botanists to be a genetic and morphological (with special focus on the growth and form of their microsporangia in the pollen structures) missing link between the cone-bearers and the true flowering plants (the angiosperms), and it is possible that members of this order were the very first plants to be insect-pollinated.
Considered by many to be a living fossil, the strange plants are coveted, and as such are growing endangered. They are protected only by their position deep in the Namib desert, which is difficult to traverse. There is some effort by botanic gardens specializing in desert flora to propagate the welwitschia and get rid of its endangered status.
----------------------------------------
Title: Quiver Tree Forest
Description: A rare cluster of alien-like plants grows along a dusty highway.
Content: Because these wonky plants prefer to grow almost exclusively atop medium-to-large dolerite rock formations, they normally grow great distances from each other. But in a small rocky pocket outside of Keetmanshoop, a large number of them grow in uncharacteristically close proximity, creating a forest-like landscape. It’s one of the only known naturally occurring such sites in the world.
Despite its name, the Quiver Tree (Aloidendron dichotomum) is not a true tree, but rather a species of Aloe capable of growing over 30 feet tall. Declared a National Monument of Namibia on June 1, 1995, the Quiver Tree Forest has been privately owned by Coenie and Ingrid Nolte since 1990. The two operate a working farm and guesthouse adjacent to the forest and permit travelers to hike around the property, even offering the occasional night tour.
All of the trees in the forest are naturally occurring and self-propagating. You’ll find young trees growing out of rock crevasses, and the oldest trees in the forest are estimated to be between 200 and 300 years old. The unusual micro-ecosystem this forest creates also attracts a surprising abundance of wildlife, most notably a large population of rock hyrax, which hikers will almost certainly find (or hear) scurrying among the rocks.
The plants are as culturally important as they are interesting to admire. They’re regarded as a national symbol of Namibia and are featured on the currency and in popular imagery. Traditional medicine uses the plants’ roots to treat both asthma and tuberculosis. The Quiver Tree takes its name from its Afrikaans name, Kokerboom, which is a reference to the indigenous San peoples’ practice of hollowing out the tubular branches to make quivers for their arrows (they’re known as choje in the San language).
The trees are scientifically fascinating, too. Their bark is covered in a white powdery substance that’s used to reflect much of the sun’s heat. The plants are also capable of a rare botanical practice known as self-amputation, which allows them to shed diseased limbs to prevent sudden infections from spreading and remove extra limbs in times of drought.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tropic of Capricorn Crossing
Description: Road signs in Namibia mark the location of one of the five major circles of latitude.
Content: On the way between Sossusvlei and Walvis Bay in Namibia, two colorful signs, one on each side of the road, mark the crossing of the Tropic of Capricorn. You will see this sign again if you drive on the road that connects Keetmanshoop with Windhoek just after Mariental if going north. One of the five major circles of latitude, the Tropic of Capricorn runs parallel to the equator and is the southernmost latitude where the sun can shine from directly overhead.
It currently marks the latitude 23.5 degrees south. However, the Tropic of Capricorn isn’t a truly fixed location. It tends to creep northward each year, making the road signs a slightly inaccurate geographic marker.
The Tropic of Capricorn passes through a number of countries including Argentina, Australia, Botswana, Brazil, Chile, Madagascar, Mozambique, South Africa, Namibia, and Paraguay. If you consider its starting place to be the Prime Meridian, it first makes landfall on the coast of Namibia.
The signs are a popular photo spot on the drive through the Namibian desert and many visitors mark the crossing by placing a sticker or signature on the sign.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dinosaur Footprints on the Otjihaenamaparero Farm
Description: Tracks of ceratosaurus and Coelophysis rhodesiensis tracks can be found fossilized in the sandstone near Mt. Etjo.
Content: Near the center of Namibia, in the Kalkveld region, midway between the B1 and the C33 highways is the farm Otjihaenamaparero.
There exposed in the Etjo sandstone are 200-million-year-old dinosaur footprints that you can walk alongside. These types of fossils, such as footprints, burrows, and feeding marks are also known as “trace fossils” or “ichnofossils.” There are two sets of tracks, and the first set that you come upon are the smaller coelophysis rhodesiensis (formerly called syntarsus) tracks ( a 10-foot-long pack hunter) that run for about 12 meters. The second set, a short distance away, are of ceratosaurus (a 20-foot-long hunter with a large nose-horn on its skull). There are two tracks that cross each other, one which runs about 30 meters and the other about 40 meters.
Nearby on the farm, visitors can camp, shower, enjoy braai (Namibian barbecue), or stay in the farm’s guest house.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Gibeon Meteorites
Description: A public display of prehistoric space rocks is named for the Namibian village where they were found.
Content: About 600 million years ago, a massive meteoroid hurtled through space before crashing into the land that would, many millennia later, become known as Namibia. While on its Earthbound journey, it shattered, sending more than 100 meteorites shooting toward the planet, leaving blazing trails in their wake.
A large portion of the space rocks were found around the village of Gibeon, earning them the name Gibeon Meteorites. Even before the start of the Iron Age, local people used the meteorites to make iron tools and weapons.
The space rocks gained international attention after Captain J.E. Alexander, an Englishman, found them during his 1838 travels. He sent a sample back to London, where prominent astronomer Sir John Herschel noticed its high quantity of nickel and declared it came from an iron meteorite.
Upwards of 150 meteorites were tracked and recovered since the captain’s 19th-century report, though quite a few of the valuable specimens were either stolen and smuggled out of the country or donated to various international research institutions. However, 30 of these prehistoric extraterrestrial wonders are available for all to see on the Post Street Mall in Windhoek. They were declared a National Monument in February of 1950.
----------------------------------------
Title: Elizabeth Bay Ghost Town
Description: The ruins of this mining boom town stand like skeletal reminders of the settlement's dark history.
Content: Though it often seems to be forgotten in the shadow of its ghost town counterpart, Kolmanskop, Elizabeth Bay was another lucrative diamond mining town that is worth exploring. It feels closer to urban exploration, and its decrepit buildings and machinery tell of a dark, greedy history.
It was operational for only 20 years, but Elizabeth Bay still boasted an immense wealth of diamonds. As a result, German miners flooded the town, building their own miniature Germany along the coast of Namibia.
A large entertainment hall and casino were built overlooking the ocean. The town also housed monstrous machinery for desalinating ocean water, rows of housing for German miners, and large, overcrowded buildings for local workers.
While the German workers enjoyed proper housing, the Namibian miners were subjected to slave conditions. Their housing and washrooms were all shared. The buildings where they slept contained cot-size beds separated by a small wall divider. About 20 beds ran along each side of the buildings and in some, rows were stacked on top of each other forcing more men into the desolate conditions. The doors to these “houses” were locked at night and their windows were small and high off the ground to discourage any workers from escaping overnight.
After a quick flash of success, the town closed in 1948. Then, in 1991, a new Elizabeth Bay mine was opened and is still in operation today. The remains of the original still stand, weather-torn and beaten but still impressive as they capture the endeavors of when the town was at its peak.
----------------------------------------
Title: Garas Park Rest Camp
Description: A rustic place to spend the night, complete with amazing quiver trees and outsider art.
Content: If you like camping, nature, and unique outsider art sculptures, then this is a must-see. You can sleep beneath the stars and watch beautiful sunsets while surrounded by fantastical quiver trees.
Hundreds of quiver trees line the horizon. Here, there’s nothing but fire to keep you company. You can start a campfire and enjoy a cold one while soaking up the splendid scenery. Bear in mind, accommodations are rustic.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bwabwata National Park
Description: Known as "The People's Park," this verdant oasis is home to elephants and villagers alike.
Content: Unlike the desert lands of the rest of Namibia, the Bwabwata National Park is fertile and green thanks to the rainfall and the nearby Cunbango River. Located in the Caprivi Strip, Bwabwata is home to both people and wildlife alike, earning it the nickname, The People’s Park. 
Established back in 2007, the Bwabwata National Park is roughly 6,274 square kilometers and known as a key migration route for African elephants traveling from Southern Angola to Chobe National Park in Botswana. Known collectively as the KAZA region, five countries collaborate to protect the majestic pachyderms’ seasonal path: Namibia, Botswana, Angola, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.
A survey was conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Tourism in Namibia to and it was found that, in addition to the elephants that pass through Bwabwata, the park is home to an estimated 5,500 people. According to the ministry, “the survey laid the foundation for the current management approach in the park, which incorporates the needs of the people living there. The survey also laid the foundation for the zoning of the park, which has a core conservation area in the west along the Okavango River, a multiple use area in the central part of the park and a core conservation area in the east along the Kwando River.”
The co-existence of man and animal in the Bwabwata National Park has led to united conservation efforts to both protect the park’s wildlife and improve the lives of the local Caprivian people.
----------------------------------------
Title: Shark Island
Description: This deceptively beautiful island was once home to a German concentration camp and known as "Death Island."
Content: Shark Island was founded in 1795 off the coast of Luderitz, Namibia. Originally named Star Island, the land sat amidst immense winds and crashing waters of the Atlantic for a century before it was connected to the mainland and used as a brutal concentration camp by the Germans from 1904 to 1908.
Like many other European nations, Germany established several African colonies in the 19th century. The native inhabitants, which included the Herero, Nama and Khoikhoi peoples, attempted to accommodate and resist German power. As more German settlers arrived, they appropriated increasing amounts of land and resources, and came to rely on coerced and enslaved labor. Although the Herero people resisted, the Germans had greater resources, which they used to annihilate the Herero population.
Survivors were sent to a concentration camp on Shark Island, which came to be known as Death Island because of the stories of its brutal conditions, minuscule food rations, and the death toll. It was home to the German physician Dr. Bofinger, who was said to conduct sinister racial science experiments and inhumane trials, such as testing whether scurvy was contagious by injecting prisoners with opium and arsenic. 
On Shark Island, the Herero and Nama peoples were beaten and starved and forced into slavery. The German geneticist Eugen Fischer ran medical breeding experiments to study their physical and mental attributes of the people imprisoned in the camp. More than 3,000 skulls belonging to the Herero and Nama people were sent back to Germany for further experimentation.
Racist ideas developed in the colony were brought back to German institutions, where Fischer’s studies would eventually be read by Adolf Hitler. One of Fischer’s students, Joseph Mengele, later conducted human experimentation and sent people to their death in the Auschwitz gas chambers.
The camp closed in 1907 and prisoners were transferred to an open area near Radford Bay where mortality rates eventually declined. Today, the harrowing peninsula is the site of a small memorial and plenty of open space for history buffs to go camping.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bourke's Luck Potholes
Description: Raging waters have created a strange geological site that looks like something off of a progressive rock album cover.
Content: At the confluence of the Blyde River and the Treur River in the South African region of Mpumulanga, thousands of years of water erosion have created a unique and otherworldly geological feature.
Here at the mouth of the Blyde River Canyon, the two rivers formed swirling eddies of water. Over time, this formed huge cylindrical potholes in the sandstone bedrock. The effect, seen from the crags above, is now a fascinating network of tunnels and tubes and interconnected whirling pools. The different soil levels in each hole give them each a unique color and makes for a striking and colorful landscape.
The formations get their name from a prospector, John Bourke, who was one of the first to proclaim that the region had gold deposits and who staked a claim nearby. Despite the name of the potholes, he never found a single ounce of gold there — though luckier prospectors would later find rich amounts of gold in the area. Even if he walked away empty-handed, his name lives on in the stunning scenery. 
The Blyde River Canyon Nature Reserve in which the potholes are located, has bridges and viewing platforms that allow visitors to see the interesting rock features from a variety of angles. There is also a small but interesting geological museum and short walking trails.
----------------------------------------
Title: Boulders Beach Penguin Sanctuary
Description: This African beach is home to thousands of rare mainland penguins that are known for their annoying voice.
Content: One of the only remaining homes to the rare African penguin, Boulder’s Beach Penguin Colony allows visitors to get up close and personal with the strange, prehistoric birds that seem right at home despite their generally Antarctic reputation.  This beautiful beach is the home of over 2,000 endangered African penguins, and one of the few mainland penguin colonies in the world.
The African penguin was long known as the “Jackass penguin” due to its grating, braying chirp. However the world is apparently big enough for two varieties of penguins with the same horrible voice, and the colorful term is now used to describe a species of penguin found in South America. The Boulders Beach birds, while endangered, were actually growing as a population in the 1990s as they bred on the scenic beaches and migrated in from other nearby colonies.
However, the booming population became a public hazard as the noisy birds started tearing up gardens and annoying neighbors. The park was subsequently fenced off and made into a national park.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bo Kaap
Description: Formerly known as the Malay Quarter, Bo Kaap is a colorfully-painted suburb located in the “Mother City” of South Africa.
Content: In the 16th and 17th Centuries, the Dutch, who were occupying South Africa at the time, brought thousands of people (mainly Muslims) from Malaysia, Indonesia, and other African countries to the Cape of Good Hope as slaves. 
The descendants of these Muslim-majority slaves were segregated under the 1950 apartheid law into Bo Kaap, a neighborhood designated as “Cape Muslims only.” These Muslim communities, in part for the celebrations of Eid, painted their segregated neighborhood with a riot of bright colors, qualifying it as one of the most colorful parts of the world.
From the center of Cape Town, it’s about a 10 minute walk to Bo Kaap, and you’ll know it when you arrive. One way cobbled streets weave through the vibrant one-story and two-story homes, stacked right next to each other with practically no open space between them. The colors directly overlap each other and strong lime green borders sky blue, light pink adjoins bright yellow, and pastel purple meets a full turquoise.
Unfortunately the once segregated neighborhood is in danger of losing the Muslim community that made it so colorful. Since apartheid ended in 1994, allowing non-Muslims to live in Bo Kaap, the property taxes have gone up. Unable-to-pay Muslims were forced to move out, while white South Africans eager to live in such a richly-colored neighborhood moved in. (Apparently a handful of Cape Town’s non-Muslim women have also moved into Bo Kaap and converted to Islam in order to marry local Muslim men, citing their reasoning as, “they didn’t drink alcohol, so they made better husbands.”) Meanwhile, to counter this gentrification, activists living in Bo Kaap have emphasized cultural preservation and have been able to keep the percentage of outsiders owning Bo Kaap property at 15%, although this number is rising. 
Bo Kaap is one of the most brilliantly-colored and  historically-unique neighborhoods in all of South Africa. Hopefully it manages to hold onto its colorful cultural history and not just the paint job.
----------------------------------------
Title: Adam's Calendar
Description: Hidden in the hills is a mysterious stone structure, known only to a few.
Content: In 2003, South African pilot Johan Heine was flying over the hills of the gorgeous Mpumalanga region of South Africa when he crashed his plane into the mountainside. After exiting the plane, Heine saw before him three monolithic, five-ton dolomite stones sticking out of the ground, and behind them a giant stone circle. 
Known to only a select few and accessible solely by rough dirt roads past the wild horses of Kaapschehoop, the megalithic stone calendar is dubbed Adam’s Calendar. With the shape of a circle and a diameter of 100 feet, it is nicknamed the “Birthplace of the Sun” and dubbed “Africa’s Stonehenge.” As with many similar stone monuments, it loosely aligns with the celestial world.
The stone circle generated a fair amount of buzz after Michael Tellinger, a writer, claimed it is the oldest manmade structure in the world and was made by a vanished civilization. However, his claims have been widely disputed. As of now, the true age, origin, and purpose of Adam’s Calendar remains a mystery that is yet to be solved.
----------------------------------------
Title: Collectors Treasury
Description: Over a million items cram the shelves at Africa's largest shop of used and rare books.
Content: Well over one million items are crammed into nearly every inch of an eight-story building in Johannesburg’s CBD. It’s the largest shop selling rare and used books in Africa, and potentially the entire Southern Hemisphere.
Visitors to Collectors Treasury will find themselves stumbling into a plethora of second-hand books as soon as they enter the door. The books are packed into every corner and wedged atop any surface that will support them. They line the walls, are stacked into towering piles, and even occupy a bit of space in the elevator. 
Take some time browsing through the seemingly endless maze of literary delights to unearth some real treasures! Keep your eyes peeled while scanning the floor-to-ceiling shelves to spot some rare finds from around the world, such as first-edition prints and books that are no longer even published. 
Collectors Treasury also has maps, prints, engravings, newspapers, photographs, and thousands of vinyl records and 78 rpm discs, as well as a small selection of decorative art antiquities. 
It’s a mystery to most how the store keeps track of its enormous collection, and yet brothers Jonathan and Geoffrey Klass have managed to keep the family business growing. They founded the store in 1974 in a shop above a garage, and have obviously had to relocate to a space large enough to hold their massive stock.
----------------------------------------
Title: South African Astronomical Observatory
Description: This historic observatory was established to keep shipwrecks from littering the Cape of Good Hope.
Content: In South Africa, the Cape of Good Hope is the official home of the South African Astronomical Observatory on top, and the unofficial home of more than 3,500 shipwrecks down at the bottom. 
Until the work of the South African Astronomical Observatory (the SAAO) began in 1820, the treacherous seas around the Cape of Good Hope saw more than 500 years of ships battering and crashing through the South Atlantic, with little to no usable stellar navigation established. Without the positions of the Southern stars accurately mapped, ships were often on their own, in unfamiliar waters and under unfamiliar skies.
In 1820, a young Fearon Fallows was sent by the Royal Society of Astronomers to the Cape of Good Hope to get a handle on those southern skies, and maybe help a few ships’ captains avoid disaster. Fallows, a brilliant astronomer and mathematician, was from the same small town of Cockermouth in the north of England that produced the brilliant poet William Wordsworth and less brilliant (but maybe more colorful) Fletcher Christian of Mutiny on the Bounty fame.
Despite his small-town beginnings, Fallows was talented enough to be dispatched to the other side of the world to accomplish a nearly impossible task – to get an observatory up and running while plagued by sand and dust storms, snakes, a lack of qualified stone masons (major stone work was required to stabilize early astronomical equipment), and the dreaded tablecloth clouds that could almost instantly block out the skies. But Fallows persevered, and the original structure for the observatory was completed in 1829.
Sadly, the struggle may have taken the ultimate toll on Fallows, who passed away only three years later – dead from recurring scarlet fever, and buried on the grounds of his now-functioning observatory.
Fallows’ plotting of the southern skies finally appeared in star catalogs in 1851, and his successor’s catalogue of Southern stars has held as a basis of refined sidereal astronomy (a field that relates to constellations and their daily movements) in the southern hemisphere. The observatory’s measurements were so precise for their time – this is still only 1833 – that they accurately measured the distance of Alpha Centauri (our next closest star, almost four and a half lightyears away) to within 1/5,000th of a degree. As the SAAO notes, that’s like measuring the diameter of a penny from two and a half miles away.
The observatory eventually set up a campus of major telescopes in Sutherland, about four hours away from the main location in Observatory, in order to take advantage of its dark skies, with very little light pollution and mostly unfettered by clouds. There they’ve erected the largest telescope in the southern hemisphere, the aptly named Southern African Large Telescope, or SALT, which houses 91, three-foot mirrors to create a light-gathering surface of 835 square feet. That’s just one of their telescopes, but that’s a lot of light.
----------------------------------------
Title: Seal Island
Description: Haven for Cape Fur Seals, until the Ring of Death of jumping Great White Sharks arrives.
Content: Located in False Bay just off the coast of Cape Town, Seal Island is a small granite landform absolutely swarmed with Cape Fur Seals.
The piles of seals use the island as their main breeding ground and usually are left in peace. Humans have tried to inhabit the island, but failed, once as sealers in the early 20th century and later during World War II with an installation of a radar that was soon destroyed by the elements.
However, the Great White Sharks also love the little island and at certain times of the year create a circle around it known as the Ring of Death. Any seal that swims too far is attacked by the sharks that actually leap from the water with the seals in their teeth before crashing down into the waves.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sudwala Caves
Description: These otherworldly caverns form Earth's oldest known cave system.
Content: The Sudwala Caves in Mpumalanga, South Africa, are the oldest known caves in the world. They began to form about 240 million years ago as natural acid in groundwater seeped through the faults and joints of the region’s Precambrian dolomite rock. To put that unimaginable length of time into some context, when the cave formation began, Africa was still a part of Gondwana, the supercontinent that incorporated present-day South America, Africa, Arabia, Madagascar, India, Australia, and Antarctica.
The caves are part of the Malmani Dolomite Ridge. Near the entrance to the system is a massive chamber measuring 230 feet (70 meters) in diameter and 121 feet (37 meters) high from the center of the chamber to its dome-like ceiling. The chamber is known as the PR Owen Hall, after Philippus Rudolf Owen. In 1965, Owen purchased the land on which the caves are found and opened them up to the public.
Many other named features exist within the spectacular cave system, which stretches for many miles. There are strange speleothem structures—stalagmites, stalactites, and flowstones —with names like Samson’s Pillar, the Rocket, and the Screaming Monster. These began to form between 140 and 200 million years ago; the growth rate for a stalactite in the Sudwala Caves is about one inch (2.5 centimeters) per century. Other nooks and bizarre outcroppings bear titles such as the Devil’s Workshop and Fairyland, while a natural pattern on the ceiling of one chamber is known as the Map of Africa.
Apart from primitive microbial fossils and a colony of about 800 horseshoe bats, signs of life inside the Sudwala Caves are scarce. Humans, however, have made their mark. Homo habilis, one of the earliest members of the genus Homo, lived in the caves around 1.8 million years ago, and some of their primitive stone tools have been found inside, along with archaeological finds dating to a few thousand years B.C. (some of these artifacts are displayed near the cave entrance).
Far more recently, the caves served as a fortress and refuge for the Swazi prince Somquba. In the mid-1800s, Somquba was locked in a power struggle with his brother and heir apparent, Mswati. During the conflict, Somquba used the caves as a refuge with its own source of fresh water and plenty of room to stockpile food and house cattle.
It was also a natural fortress, with a narrow entrance that could be easily watched and defended. Many battles took place at the entrance, which was under the charge of Sudwala, Somquba’s captain, after whom the caves were named. On various occasions, Mswati’s forces tried to smoke Sudwala and his men out of the cave, or suffocate them inside it, by starting fires at the entrance (burn marks can still be seen today). But due to a natural flow of air which exists inside the cave—the source of which is still unknown—Somquba and Sudwala were able to survive.
The caves were later used by the Boers to store ammunition during the Second Boer War, which lasted from 1899 to 1902. At the end of the war, rumors began to circulate that President Paul Kruger had hidden a hoard of gold in the caves to protect it from the British. Known as the “Kruger Millions,” the treasure trove of gold coins is estimated to be worth around U.S. $500,000,000 in today’s terms. It still hasn’t been found.
Since the 1970s, the main chamber of the Sudwala Caves has also been used as a concert hall. Capable of seating 500 people, it apparently has fantastic acoustics and a pleasant temperature, the latter thanks to the same flow of fresh air, the origin of which is still unknown, that saved Somquba.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tapi Tapi Ice Cream
Description: The frozen treats at this Cape Town parlor are inspired by Africa's food cultures.
Content: Even in South Africa, African food is not the default. And in Cape Town especially, dining can be quite Eurocentric. Centuries of colonialism erased indigenous foods and entrenched the idea that European food is somehow superior. These effects are still found today, but a microbiologist turned ice-cream maker, Tapiwa Guzha, wants that to change. With every handcrafted scoop served at Cape Town’s Tapi Tapi, he tells the story of his own food history, as well as stories from across the African continent.
His freezers contain flavors like rondo ice cream, made with a nutritious edible clay consumed by pregnant women all over Africa, as well as botanical flavors such as black-jack, bitter leaf, and baobab. Sometimes Guzha whips up an ice-cream version of kelewele, a caramelized Ghanaian plantain snack with ginger and fire-roasted peanuts. Guzha’s recipes range from comforting to challenging. One of his more daring ice-cream flavors included matemba, a dried fish that he paired with toffee. 
Tapi Tapi is located in the heart of Observatory, an eclectic and diverse neighborhood in Cape Town. Guzha has painted his open-air parlor with his own artwork and words. As a one-man business, his operation is truly remarkable, open six days a week and closed for churning ice cream on the seventh. But Guzha’s passion for his creations and his mission keep him going.
----------------------------------------
Title: Neighbourgoods Market
Description: A growing popular hipster market with over 100 local specialties and live music.
Content: A buzz of food, talk and music fills a packed open-air rooftop market every Saturday in Johannesburg’s CBD. Founded by Justin Rhodes and Cameron Munro in partnership with Adam Levy in 2011, Neighbourgoods Market stands as a beacon of hope in the once dilapidated Braamfontein area.
The market has become one of the most popular markets drawing thousands of visitors to the ever-growing inner-city art scene in ‘Jozi’. The market features over 100 local speciality stalls including gourmet food and desserts, mason jar drinks, craft beers, vintage clothing stores, jewelry and live music.
The vibe of this urban-style, hipster-crawling, Instagram-worthy market sums up everything the new Joburg is about!
----------------------------------------
Title: Cango Caves
Description: Largest cave system in Africa.
Content: Situated near to the well-known Swartberg Mountains, the Cango Caves are decidedly huge dripstone caverns, with vast halls and towering formations, known as the biggest in Africa.
The entrances to these caves were shown by artifacts to serve as homes during the Middle and Later Stone Ages. Discovered in 1780 by a farmer named Jacobus Van Zyl, the caves are now a popular tourist spot despite only 1/4 of their vast area being open to the public.
----------------------------------------
Title: Howick Falls
Description: Local lore says a serpent-like beast lurks in the deep basin below the falls.
Content: This picturesque waterfall is created by the Umgeni River plunging into a basin below. According to local folklore, a serpent-like creature dwells within the pool of water at the bottom of the fall.
The thunderous Howick Falls drop more than 300 feet. The falls also go by the name of KwaNogqaza, which translates to the “Place of the Tall One.”
It’s said that only sangomas, the traditional healers of South Africa, can safely approach the falls. Legend says the Inkanyamba, a monstrous creature with a serpent’s body and a horse-sized head, lurks within the basin. The beast is believed to have the most power in the summer, when its rage sends storms rushing across the region.
The serpent isn’t the only powerful aspect of the waterfall. People wading into the river atop the fall have been swept over the edge and sent to a brutal, watery demise. At least 40 deaths have been recorded since the falls were discovered by European explorers in the 1800s.
----------------------------------------
Title: District Six Museum
Description: A sobering account of the vibrant multicultural neighborhood that was destroyed under apartheid.
Content: District Six, or “Distrik Ses” in Afrikaans, was a bohemian, mixed neighborhood in every sense of the word. It was crowded with a multiracial blend of working class people, Jews, Muslims, and Christians alike, many of whom were descended from formerly enslaved people and immigrants. In the mid-20th century, a population of roughly 60,000 lived there. Unfortunately, District Six was also at the epicenter of apartheid in Cape Town, and still bears its scars.
After South Africa’s National Party gained power in 1948, its all-white government began enforcing policies of racial segregation known as apartheid. In the 1960s and 70s, the segregating Group Areas Act saw all the non-white residents of District Six evicted and relocated further outside the city. It was called “slum clearing,” and the true intention of the racial discrimination was to fill the desirably-located neighborhood with white residents and high rise buildings. 
District Six became a symbol of apartheid oppression. A group called Hands Off District Six protested the redevelopment of their bulldozed neighborhood. It remained empty. When anti-apartheid legislation came to fruition, reparations were paid to the resettled residents of the district. Some of them, along with their descendants, have been permitted to move back to the area. Others have been given financial compensation, but righting the wrongs is slow and still ongoing.
The excellent and sobering District Six Museum provides context as well as rotating exhibits on the residents who were forcibly removed from their homes. Another highlight is St. Mark’s Anglican Church, built in 1867. The government was unable to bulldoze the historic religious building, and instead offered its clergy a resettlement stipend. They declined, and St. Mark’s continued to host the same community in the original location, now driving from all over Cape Town to attend service.
What’s left of District Six is now part of the Zonnebloem neighborhood. A new generation has begun to rebuild there, but a small patch of land sits empty and deserted, a reminder of the cultural destruction that occurred.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ponte Tower
Description: The tallest residential building in Africa is an unsettling Brutalist monolith.
Content: Looking upwards from the inner courtyard of Ponte Tower can be an unsettling experience. A small patch of blue sky surrounded by a 173-meter-high cylindrical matrix of identical windows is all you can see. It is a dehumanizing habitat, an example of “Brutalist” architecture that was truly brutal.
Ponte Tower, also known as the Ponte City Apartments, was built in 1975, and is still the tallest residential skyscraper in Africa. It is a 54-story tube with an open center to allow additional light to reach its inner apartments. The building was designed by Manfred Hermer.
Ponte Tower was a true example of Apartheid-era thinking. The apartments facing the outside of the building were designated for rich white families while the inner apartments, in permanent twilight, were meant for their black servants.
Life in the building became truly brutal after the fall of Apartheid. As crime rose in the once-upscale Hillbrow neighborhood, numerous gangs moved into the building. Ponte Tower became a center of organized crime activity, and life in the building become extremely unsafe. Owners all but abandoned the structure to decay. At one point the garbage piled five stories high in the open inner courtyard of the building.
Should one desire they can rent a 3-story, 6-bedroom penthouse for R2700,00 p/m on the 51st floor, and while the area is still one of the worst in Johannesburg, the building has improved slightly. The drug dealers, once a large presence in the building, have mostly moved to the Sands Hotel around the block.
The building is currently under new ownership, and undergoing renovation.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sun City Resort
Description: A safari-themed castle in the South African bush with the largest maze in the southern hemisphere.
Content: Just a two-hour drive from Johannesburg towers a giant castle, accessible through a path lined with a herd of elephant statues. This castle’s main fountain spouts water out of the horns of sable antelope, and the courtyard contains a life-sized replica of Shawu, who had some of the longest tusks of any elephant ever discovered in South Africa’s Kruger National Park. 
This safari-themed castle in the South African bush is the Sun City Resort, a marvelous palace with a bizarre geopolitical history.
Sun City Resort was built in 1979 by business magnate Sol Kerzner just northwest of Johannesburg. At the time, this region was under the autonomy of Bophuthatswan, an independent state created under apartheid. Kerzner chose the controversial region as the site of his palace because it was the nearest place to Johannesburg that permitted topless venues. 
Kerzner had always dreamed of building a “mythical royal residence built by a lost tribe” in the middle of the South African bush, and just that he did—Kerzner’s brainchild would make both Indiana Jones and Walt Disney proud. In addition to the countless statues of safari animals, the “Big Five”—lions, leopards, rhinos, elephants, and Cape buffalo—can be found in living form at the resort. In the adjacent Pilanesberg Game Reserve, visitors to the resort can self-drive their cars through the African bush.
Past the majestic Palace of the Lost City and the sandy poolside beach, visitors can explore the largest maze in the entire Southern Hemisphere, a 300,000-piece mosaic of a lion killing a wildebeest, lamps held up by tiny monkey statues, and a 1.25-mile zipline, the fastest in the world.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sterkfontein Caves
Description: Caves that can't seem to quit producing the remains of prehistoric humans.
Content: Situated in an area of South Africa known as the “Cradle of Humankind,” the Sterkfontein Caves have produced some of the finest remains of early man anywhere in the world.
This system of limestone caves became famous with the 1947 discovery of the two-million-year-old fossil skull dubbed “Mrs. Ples.” After this monumental find, work continued at the site for decades. Then in 1997 “Little Foot,” a hominid skeleton aged at about 3.5 million years, was discovered in the caves. In addition to these two “stars,” the caves have also produced over 500 other fossils. With such a successful rate of finds at the site, work has continued there to this day. The caves have also been opened for visitors to tour portions of the active dig site. Here, more than anywhere else in the world, guests may be likely to stumble upon one of their own ancestors.
----------------------------------------
