Title: Ganvie Lake Village
Description: Africa's Venice on stilts.
Content: In colonial Brazil, runaway slaves and free natives formed communities deep within the Amazon as a means of escaping the brutality of Portuguese slavery. A combination of dense vegetation, waterways, and perilous wildlife and disease separated these societies from the slave traders who pursued them.
A small group of people outside of what is now Cotonou, Benin, took advantage of a different set of circumstances to evade capture by the Portuguese. At the time, the powerful West-African Fon tribe was hunting and selling other native tribesman to the Portuguese. While there were few physical impediments protecting the ancestors of today’s Ganvie village from outside attack, Fon religious practice forbade their raiders from advancing on any peoples dwelling on water, laying the groundwork for the Ganvie Lake Village.
Ganvie is a village of roughly 20,000 people that stands on stilts in the middle of Lake Nokoue. The founders of the village fled there to avoid Fon warriors, and in the roughly 500 years that have passed since, Ganvie has developed an intricate and prosperous culture within the constraints of life on the lake.
A school is the only one of Ganvie’s 3,000 buildings that exists on land, although a cemetery mound is currently under construction. The villagers of Ganvie travel almost exclusively by boat, and the few domesticated land-animals they maintain live on plots of grass that spring up from the water. Without a good supply of domesticated animals, Ganvie relies on a complicated network of underwater fencing to corral and farm various fish populations.
The village sits several miles from the nearest shoreline and is about a 4 hour journey from the capital. Ganvie is Africa’s largest lake village.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Temple of Pythons
Description: Dozens of snakes are housed and worshipped within the walls of this Vodun temple.
Content: A snarl of snakes forms a knot in the corner of a nondescript indoor pit. Other serpents slither around them. Though it’s an intimidating sight, in this African temple the powerful pythons aren’t feared but instead revered and worshipped. 
The Temple of Pythons is a site of historical and modern symbolism and spiritual practice in Ouidah, Benin. The snakes are a major totem for followers of Vodun, a religion practiced by groups of people within West and Central African nations such as Ghana, Togo, and Benin.
Vodun became somewhat widespread in southern regions of the New World as a result of the African diaspora. It became the inspiration for other religions such as Louisiana Voodoo and Haitian Vodou. Snakes are important religious symbols and are highly respected. According to the theology, a rainbow serpent named Dan is an important deity that serves as a middleman between the living and the spirits.
The serpents play a large role in the spirituality of Ouidah. According to local legend, the king of Ouidah took refuge in a forest from those seeking to kill him during a war in the 1700s. When he was in hiding, pythons emerged from the forest and prevented him from being captured. To commemorate their role in his protection, he ordered the creation of three monuments. 
Ouidah’s Temple of Pythons is a concrete building topped with a clay roof. Inside, there’s a pit filled with dozens of snakes from a species known as the Royal python (notable for their docility) either slinking around or tangled together. It is reported that approximately sixty pythons make this temple their home. 
The snakes aren’t fed, though they are let out about once a week to prey upon chickens and mice. They occasionally make their way into local homes, where they’re treated as ordinary guests before being returned to the temple. 
The snakes are harmless and visitors are permitted to hold them. For an extra fee, people can even take photographs with the slithering star attractions.
----------------------------------------
Title: La Porte du Non-Retour (The Door of No Return)
Description: A monument to the more than one million enslaved Africans deported from the port of Ouidah.
Content: Over the course of two centuries, more than one million enslaved Africans were deported from the town of Ouidah on the coast of Benin. They were marched in chains from the town’s slave market to the nearby port, where they would board ships to unknown destinations, the majority of them never to return.  They were often blindfolded, and marched in circles around the few trees or few obstacles along the way, to make them forget where they came from, surely physically so they wouldn’t try to escape, as well as symbolically.  Today, a memorial arch, known as La Porte du Non-Retour (The Door of No Return), stands on the beach, a monument to the horrors of slavery.
The massive slave trade in Benin was a cooperative effort between African rulers and private merchants. From the 1580s to the 1720s, the coastal Kingdom of Whydah exported around 1,000 slaves a month, many of them taken captive during tribal wars in the interior. These enslaved men were then taken to Ouidah, where they were sold to European and Arab merchants. This practice continued with the Kingdom of Dahomey, which conquered Ouidah in 1727, up until the end of the slave trade in the 1860s.
From the slave market in Ouidah, the enslaved Africans had to walk a few miles to the coastline, where ships waited to take them away, to Jamaica or Brazil or some other unknown destination.  Small rowboats would take them out to the larger ships, and some would jump overboard in the rough water rather than face the uncertainty of the voyage or the life ahead.  For most, the beach at Ouidah was the last sight of Africa they would ever see.
In the early 1990s, the Beninese government, with help from UNESCO, began a project to commemorate the victims of the slave trade. The Slave Route Project, as it was known, led to the creation of a series of statues, monuments, and installations beginning in the town and continuing along the dirt road to the beach—the final journey for so many enslaved Africans before they were deported.
The largest and most impactful memorial stands at the end of the Slave Route. This is the Door of No Return, a memorial arch, or gateway, built in 1995. Both sides of the arch are covered in images of enslaved men and women. The main mural on the inland-facing side depicts enchained men walking toward the sea, a ship waiting for them in the distance. On the sea-facing side, the mural shows them walking away from their homeland, a single tree in the distance representing the land that most of them would never see again.
Bronze sculptures stand at either side of the arch. Some represent the enslaved Africans: oxidized bronze figures in chains, staring out at the sea. And nearby stands a cement Egungun, a traditional masked figure that recalls departed ancestors. It’s a powerful collection if images, and—at least in some way—expresses the final thoughts of the enslaved men and women as their feet sunk into the sands of coastal Ouidah, and of Africa, for the very last time.
----------------------------------------
Title: Agongointo-Zoungoudo Archaeological Park
Description: This subterranean town of over 50 dwellings lies thirty feet beneath the Earth's surface.
Content: Just outside of Abomey, a subterranean town of over fifty dwellings lies thirty feet beneath the ground. Known as the Agongointo-Zoungoudo Underground Town, the series of rooms and passageways was rediscovered in 1998 during a construction project in Bohicon, when an unsuspecting bulldozer toppled into one of the caverns. 
The sprawling subterranean town is believed to date back to the late-16th or early-17th century during the reign of King Dakodonou, the second king of Dahomey. Agongointo-Zoungoudo consists of over 17 acres of underground homes—each segmented into living rooms, bedrooms, and kitchens—likely erected to shelter warriors. Some of the underground dwellings contain multiple levels, and several appear to have been connected to a well. 
The underground town was designated a tentative UNESCO World Heritage site just four months after its discovery, and Bohicon authorities quickly worked to transform the site into an archaeological park open to the public. In addition to the underground town, you can check out the site’s butterfly garden, exhibition hall, and spots of local Vodun belief, such as a baobab tree wrapped in strangler fig and Dan fetishes.
----------------------------------------
Title: Voodoo Temple of Abomey
Description: A giant chameleon, with a fascinating purpose.
Content: It is a hot and muggy afternoon in southern Benin—typical weather for February, the guide says—as the motorbike leaves the main road and heads down a red dirt track. Ten minutes later a tiny rural village comes into view. Many of the inhabitants seem delighted by the arrival of visitors; smiling children gather around and an old lady says “thank you for choosing to visit my country and learn about my religion.” Whilst this warm welcome alone makes the dusty journey worthwhile, visitors to this remote location have traveled here to see something specific.
Crouched in the middle of the village is a giant chameleon. So far so unexciting perhaps; after all, chameleons aren’t a completely unusual sight in West Africa. But this lizard is a little different. Towering more than 10 meters above the ground, with bulging eyes and a gaping, cavernous mouth, the chameleon is made entirely of stone. Deep within the lizard’s enormous stomach is what tourists come all this way to visit: one of Benin’s Voodoo temples.
The guide explains that, unfortunately, the temple is only open on Sundays. Instead of going in, one can scramble up next to the chameleon’s massive stone legs, to get a look through the window. Inside is a cathedral-like space, dusty and undecorated, lined with benches awaiting the next mass. 
Continuing around the outside of the chameleon, up a spiral staircase and over the lizard’s huge stone back, one can enter the building through a gloomy doorway. Inside, the floor is dust and stones—a long corridor off which stand many empty rooms. At the end of the corridor, the space opens out just behind the chameleon’s head. Into the curved walls have been cut windows, through which the light pours. The guide explains these rooms are used for Voodoo ceremonies. When will their construction and decoration be completed? The guide says it is all a matter of funds. If visitors choose, they can give money to the village leaders to help them complete the project.
----------------------------------------
Title: Cour Royale de Tiébélé
Description: In this African village, the walls of the chief's compound are painted with beautiful traditional designs.
Content: Tiébélé, which is roughly 12.4 miles north of Ghana’s border, is known within the small West African country of Burkina Faso for its sukhala, the elaborately painted walls of the houses and outbuildings within the community chief’s complex. The village is home to the Kassena ethnic group, which has lived in this area since the 15th century.
The patterns on the buildings within the Cour Royale de Tiébélé, which are usually painted by women, are an important example of the Kassena cultural legacy. Traditional designs are created by hand in black, white, and red colors, with lacquer prepared from beans. Adorning the walls with these artistic creations is a community activity, with upwards of 15 women working on any given building. It isn’t just houses that receive this special treatment. Mausoleums for the dead are decorated too.
The architecture of the buildings themselves is typical of the larger Gurunsi ethnic group. The walls are thick and have minimal windows, for defense against both people and climate. The buildings were historically created using soil, straw, and cow dung, though nowadays mud, brick, and stone are the more common materials of choice.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ruins of Loropéni
Description: These mysterious 1,000-year-old walls have revealed little about their past.
Content: These stone walls have stood for at least 1,000 years, towering above an otherwise flat territory. As of yet, the ruins have revealed little about their past, as much of the archaeological site has yet to be excavated.
The walls that stretched around the 119,800-square-foot site once guarded a fortress. It’s believed the fort was used by the Lohron or Koulango peoples, who were part of the powerful trans-Saharan gold trade.
The settlement reached its peak between the 14th and 17th centuries, which were toward the end of the trans-Saharan gold trade’s prime. The site was abandoned sometime in the 19th century, and has largely been left to nature’s whims.
Already, bits of the settlement have been lost to time. Centuries of wind, rain, and bushfires have weakened the walls that remain.
In 2009, the ruins of Loropéni were declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It’s the first World Heritage Site within Burkina Faso, and it’s hoped this prestigious title will fuel some funding for further research and excavations.
----------------------------------------
Title: Viana Desert
Description: Rolling sand dunes of the Sahara... in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean.
Content: In the middle of the Atlantic Ocean off of Africa’s western coast sits the island of Boa Vista, known for its marine life, traditional music, and something more unusual: a small patch of desert on the northwestern part of the island, formed by the accumulation of wandering sand grains from the Sahara.
Great volumes of sand are continuously carried from the African continent towards the sea by trade winds. Much of this sand is deposited on Boa Vista because of its proximity to the mainland and the particular shape of the terrain. The resulting desert patch makes for an unlikely landscape on the island—rolling dunes of white sands interspersed with black volcanic rocks and very sparse vegetation.
This small extension of the Sahara is protected by the Government of Cape Verde, which forbids the use of motorized vehicles and promotes the construction of stone walls to limit the movement of the sand dunes toward the coast.
----------------------------------------
Title: Wreckage of M/S Cabo Santa Maria
Description: This ship carrying cargo and four church bells for the Catedral Metropolitana Nossa Senhora Aparecida ran aground in 1968.
Content: On the northern part of the island of Boa Vista you’ll find the wreckage of a Spanish cargo ship that ran ashore in the fall of 1968. The M/S Cabo Santa Maria was on its way to Brazil and Argentina loaded with a variety of cargo and a number of gifts. The most important gift: four church bells determined for the new cathedral in Brasilia. But they disappeared in deep water so the cathedral had to be opened without its bells (it was only in October 1977 when they finally were consecrated at the clock tower). 
Unfortunately, in the early morning hours of September 1, the ship ran aground on the coast of Boa Esperança. A tugboat was sent from the island of São Vicente to try to dislodge the ship, but to no avail. Fortunately, the crew was able to escape the scene unhurt. That left just one thing to deal with, and it was no small feat.
A good part of the population of Boa Vista, children as well as public employees and machine operators from the other islands, were mobilized in order to remove the cargo of the ship. They used mules and donkeys to carry the cargo to the nearby capital of Boa Vista, Sal Rei. The unloading of the ship was carried out for nearly a year.
Today, the ship is slowly crumbling. After almost 50 years of battering by the wind and constant waves, much of the deck and hold have disappeared, and only a rusty shell remains for the time being… but visibly not for long. Over the decades the shipwreck has become a symbol of the island and a source of inspiration for artists.
----------------------------------------
Title: Curral Velho
Description: Once a bustling fishing village and trading post, today these Cape Verde ruins provide a home only for seabirds and turtles.
Content: The ruins of the old fishing village known as Curral Velho lie along the southern shore of the Cape Verde island of Boa Vista, the remains of the oldest settlement on the island. Translated from Portuguese, Boa Vista means “good view,” and Curral Velho means “old corral.” And both names are appropriate. The “good view” is unparalleled, and the “old corral” is pretty damn old, going back to the 17th century.
Cape Verde is a collection of small islands, an archipelago about 300 miles off the coast of West Africa that was originally settled by the Portuguese. Boa Vista is the second largest island, but it’s still small — 240 square miles, or about the size of Chicago. There are roughly 8,500 people who live on Boa Vista full time, they are mostly there to service the growing tourism industry. The ruins of the old village of Curral Velho are spread out along the remote and vast stretch of beach known as Santa Monica (named after its more famous cousin in Southern California). The little village was remote even at the time it was settled, and life wasn’t easy for the inhabitants. Navigation around this side of the island was tricky, and fresh water could be scarce in times of drought. But the early inhabitants did have one other thing going for them besides fishing. There is a large salt flat nearby, and the export of salt to the mainland and to the other Cape Verde islands meant they had something to trade.
This kept the village going for a couple hundred years, but in the early 19th century Boa Vista was sacked by pirates at least twice. The Boa Vistans fortified their vulnerable island, but the city they built as protection from further attack wasn’t near Curral Velho, and the little village was eventually abandoned.
The area around the ruins is an important habitat for seabirds and sea turtles who have enjoyed the sleepy stopover for millennia, as a place to lay their fragile eggs. The rapid expansion of tourism has been a threat to both the eggs and to the turtles themselves, valuable for their meat. Efforts have been stepped up by environmental organizations to protect the wildlife, with some real success. They’ve been able to get both the seabird and turtle populations back up after years of decline. Which is only fair since the birds and turtles have been coming here long before any people showed up.
----------------------------------------
Title: Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro
Description: The world's largest church atop a political fault line.
Content: In a country known best for civil war and political unrest, the Basilica of Our Lady of Peace emerges tranquilly from the barren landscape surrounding the church on all sides. Despite its impressive stature, it remains shrouded in controversy from comparison and stands as a symbol of the problems facing the Ivory Coast.
Construction began on the Basilica in 1985, just 25 years into the Ivory Coast’s remarkable and prosperous independent history. The Ivory Coast’s beloved leader Felix Houphouet-Boigny chose the location on the outskirts of Yamoussoukro. Houphouet-Boigny grew up in the city and led the country into stability since its independence in 1960.
After the complex was finished in 1990, the basilica, which is modeled after St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome, had cost over $300 million, and stood as the world’s largest church eclipsing the size of its inspiration in Italy. The complex is over 30,000 square meters and the dome rises over 500 feet into the air and can accommodate 18,000 worshippers.
Although the Basilica gave the Ivory Coast international recognition, including Pope John Paul II’s blessing, its construction symbolized a larger problem that would plague the country over the next 20 years. In the vein of a monarchical France, the Basilica was in essence a statement of grandeur more fitting for Louis XIV’s riches than a prosperous but nascent democratic economy.
Unlike St. Peters, the basilica is built on the outskirts of the city and is surrounded by marked poverty, dotting a barren and dusty landscape. By comparison to its surroundings, the Basilica loses its imposing beauty quickly. Less than a decade after its construction, the Ivory Coast was plunged into a series of civil wars, the most recent of which exploded between November 2010-April 2011 after failed elections in 2010.
As Houphouet-Boigny quickly worked to build a lasting symbol of political tranquility in the twilight of his time in office, it became evident that stability was fleeting. Just as the newly independent government had stood as a symbol of hope in a struggling West African region of the 1970s and 1980s, the Basilica now stands as precarious hope and stability in a struggling Ivory Coast.
Despite its renown and massive size, the basilica like its country, sits atop a political fault line, willing to devour it into the earth at the tiniest shake. As poor vendors peruse its borders selling cheap wares, the structure constantly begs the question of whether a permanent reminder of stability was too much too soon.
----------------------------------------
Title: Crocodile House
Description: Living inside a fearsome reptile in the Ivory Coast.
Content: Thierry Atta is now fully moved into his new home. Situated in the midst of Abidjan, the former capital of the Ivory Coast, the architect’s home is actually a massive and grotesquely-smiling crocodile, completely hollowed out to create a living space inside of the reptile structure. 
Completed in 2008, the crocodile was actually the work of artist Moussa Kalo, who sadly died only two months before it was completed. As an apprentice of Kalo, Atta moved into the work the men had created, and has since made the crocodile his home. Including windows and a bed, the strange concrete house is completely livable, and is a joy to many people in the neighborhood who stop by the courtyard to smile and play by the eccentric home.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kakum Canopy Walk
Description: This series of rope-style bridges brings visitors into a jungle layer that is usually reserved for birds and monkeys.
Content: Unique on the African continent, the Kakum Canopy Walk allows hikers to experience a portion of the jungle usually reserved for climbers and fliers thanks to a trail of precariously hung suspension bridges. 
Located in the thick tropical jungle of Kakum National Park, the canopy walk was actually designed by a pair of Canadian engineers and five Ghanaians. Looking to increase tourism (specifically ecotourism) in the largely ignored national park, the designers wanted to create a unique feature that would make the park a destination, thus an elevated trail through the canopy was devised. Opened on Earth Day in 1995, the canopy walkway consists of seven separate bridges that hang from the trees over 130 feet above the ground. Across over 1,000 feet of walkway, the bridges look as though they are constructed like a traditional rope bridge made from the materials of the forest, however the sturdy spans are made of wire rope, aluminum, and wooden planks, and even have safety netting to keep people from plummeting off the trail.
----------------------------------------
Title: Cape Coast Castle
Description: Where thousands of slaves passed through the "Door of No Return."
Content: When President Obama visited Ghana’s Cape Coast Castle in July, 2009, he remarked that “it reminds us of the capacity of human beings to commit great evil.” 
This castle in Cape Coast, Ghana—once known as the Gold Coast of West Africa—was one of around 40 “slave castles” that served as prisons and embarkation points for slaves en route to the Americas (the Caribbean, South America, and the U.S.). Thousands of enslaved Africans from regions near and far, sometimes hundreds of miles away, were taken to these castles to be sold to slave ships. 
One of the most well known parts of Cape Coast Castle, that you can visit today, is the “Door of No Return,” which led slaves out of the castle and onto the ships setting off on the Middle Passage. Their boat journeys could last several months, and an estimated 15 percent of slaves died aboard, en route. Somewhere around 12 millions slaves were sent from Africa, millions of whom died in the process. Cape Coast Castle was a way station in history’s largest, and darkest, forced human migration.
The history of the castle, which could also be termed a fort, is predictably complicated and contentious. Possession of it was stolen back and forth as the slave trade grew bigger and more lucrative in the 1600s and 1700s. The site’s first establishment was built by the Swedish Africa Company, whose officers had established good relations with local chiefs. In 1650, Swede Hendrik Caerloff finagled the King of Fetu’s permission to build a fort, and in 1653, Carlusborg Fort was erected.
It was snatched by the Danish West India Company in 1657, and seized back and forth between the Danish, Dutch, and Swedes, competitors in the growing slave economy. When the King of Fetu died in 1663, the Dutch seized control for a hot second before the British swooped in, in 1664. The British renamed it Cape Coast Castle and managed to maintain possession, though there were a few close calls. In 1757, for example, an attack by the French badly damaged the fort, leading to a complete reconstruction. Tens of thousands of bricks and tiles were imported from England in 1797 for the reconstruction effort, which was also intended to expand the castle’s slave-holding capacity.
When you visit Cape Coast Castle today, the main destination in the calm and breezy seaside town of Cape Coast, you can tour the entire expansive building, from the ramparts lined with cannons to the nearly lightless dungeons. These dungeons, called “slave holes” by the British, had essentially no ventilation nor windows, with 200 slaves, separated by gender, crammed in one room, and the floor covered in human waste. Diseases like malaria and yellow fever were common under such wretched conditions. 
As many as 1,500 slaves (two-thirds of whom were male) were held in the castle dungeons at any one time. When you walk through the dungeons today, it is terrifying to imagine the reality of what took place in these suffocating spaces just over two centuries ago. Then, moments later, you’ll be out of the dungeons and wandering by the church or strolling down long hallways leading to officer’s quarters with pleasant views over the sea—two adjacent spaces set entire worlds apart.
The Brits formally declared the slave trade illegal in 1807, though Cape Coast Castle remained their local headquarters on the Gold Coast until 1877. The British Public Works Department later restored the premises in 1920s, and retained ownership right up until Ghana’s independence in 1957, at which point the castle came under the purview of the Ghana Museums and Monuments Board.
Though the remains of other slave castles exist along the former Gold Coast, Cape Coast Castle is one of the most well restored and well known. It is well worth a visit to remind each of us of the many corners of the globe involved in the former slave trade—and a reminder that many more such corners still exist.
----------------------------------------
Title: Mole National Park
Description: At Ghana's largest wildlife refuge you feel like you're right in the animals' backyard.
Content: As you walk around the restaurant and visitor’s center at Mole National Park, you’ll pass by warthogs wandering along on their way, possibly even an elephant that has strayed from the group. At Ghana’s largest wildlife refuge, life is relaxed and no one is in a rush to get anywhere. 
Mole National Park (pronounced Moh-lay) is located in northwest Ghana, about 90 miles from the major city of Tamale. The grounds are still fairly undeveloped and untouristed due to the park’s remote location, which makes it feel like you are truly wandering around the animals’ backyard. 
The park was established in 1964, though the land was first set aside as a game reserve in 1958, a year after Ghana’s independence from Britain. The park spans about 3,000 square miles, fed by the seasonal Lovi and Mole rivers. On the grounds there is a motel and pool that look from a cliffside out across the savanna woodland, from which you can watch herds of elephants meandering by the water holes below.
The park is home to 90 mammalian species (including five types of primates), 734 species of flower plants, 56 butterfly species, and enough bird species to attract avid birders—at least 300 species, including the white-backed vulture and Senegal parrot. 
However, because of the few dozen villages located near the park boundaries, subsistence hunting continues to pose a problem for preserving the wildlife. What’s more, the elephants’ former migration route into southern Burkina Faso has been obstructed by human settlement, and seemingly less frequented as a result.
You can take jeep safari tours around the park’s rust red dirt roads, and are often able to get right up close to the elephants (there are around 500 total) and possibly pass by antelopes, hippos, hartebeests, buffalo and monkeys. The poor maintenance of the roads—which access only a small fraction of the park—is a loss to visitors, but a gain for the wildlife.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sacred Crocodile Ponds of Paga
Description: The souls of the dead have made these Ghanese crocodiles shockingly docile.
Content: Along Ghana’s northern border, many villagers are inside of crocodiles. Luckily, they have not been eaten; the reptiles simply hold their souls.
In the town of Paga, nestled right up against Burkina Faso, is a sacred crocodile pond where locals believe that crocodiles hold the souls of the village’s deceased. High profile deaths in the community have even coincided with the deaths of some of the sacred crocodiles.
Ancestors’ souls or not, the crocodiles of the sacred pond in Paga are protected and allegedly as safe as any domesticated pet. The residents of Paga certainly treat them as such, regularly interacting with the 110 crocodiles in the main crocodile sanctuary, Chief’s Pond.
What’s even more stunning, no one has ever been harmed by one of the crocodiles. Young children swim in the pond and Ghanaians along with tourists are invited to touch and practically play with the reptiles. The people of the town wash clothes next to the bumpy ridges of the crocodiles’ jaws without a hint of fear.
Even more remarkable than the docile nature of this crocodile population, is how these massive crocodiles made the pond their home. The pond is completely landlocked and apparently the oldest beasts in the water are over 80 years old. Yet here they are, ready and waiting for tourists to feed them live chickens, sit on them, or lift their spiny tails.
Crocodiles have been on earth for over 200 million years, even outliving the dinosaurs. And more importantly, their behavior in Paga is without comparison. For the legions of tourists seeking a wild Africa full of the world’s most impressive and dangerous beasts, Paga’s a good start to their journey.
A small fee to a local tour guide is required for interpretation and the purchase of the crocodile’s live chicken dinner.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tengzug Shrine
Description: Topless shrine of northern Ghana.
Content: The Talensis people of Northern Ghana require you to be topless to observe one of their sacred rituals. With the smell of animal blood and feces bombarding their senses, man and woman alike must bare themselves to the sub-Saharan heat to enter the Tengzug Shrine in the Tongo Hills.
The Tengzug Shrine, one of the most famous in the region, was once a hideout for slaves evading their captors. Now, it is used more traditionally for religious animal sacrifices for good luck and to please the ancestors of the Talensis. With a guide, visitors can scale the rocks up to the Tengzug Shrine, remove their tops and witness the sacrifice of birds and chickens.
In the shrine, among the remnants of the recently sacrificed, visitors get a panoramic view of the region and the surreal world of the Tongo Hills. Giant Baobab trees and boulders define the dry landscape that draws both tourists and religious pilgrims. The Tongo Hills comprise only twenty square kilometers, but are richly packed with history, religious significance, and fantastic hiking.
Along with the many shrines tucked away in the rock formations of the area, the local population has rebuilt a number of classic Talensis homes. Shaped like cylinders and grouped into neighborhoods, the homes have miniature doorways, followed by a short wall inside the home that allows for protection from intruders. Other than the doorway and a few holes for smoke to exit the structure, they are completely closed off to the outside world.
The Tongo Hills give visitors a window into the world of the Talensis, and visitors coming at the right times can experience one of the region’s vibrant festivals. In March, the Talensi celebrate the Golob Festival focusing on the sowing of the fields. With a bit more show to it, the Bo’araam Festival in October and November includes drinking traditional beer and the sacrifice of donkeys, goats, and fowl.
----------------------------------------
Title: Larabanga Mosque
Description: The first mosque in Ghana is known as the "Mecca of West Africa."
Content: The Larabanga Mosque is the oldest in all of Ghana, possibly in all of West Africa. It has survived for centuries despite inclement weather and bad reconstruction projects.
As the legend goes, Ayuba, a Moorish trader, was traveling across the Sahara in 1421 when he spent the night in the village of Larabanga. He received instructions in a dream to construct a mosque in the village, and when he awoke the foundations had already been set for him. He built the mosque in the traditional Sudanic-Sahelian style, from mud and reeds. Each side of the building bore a separate entrance: one for men, one for women, one for Larabanga’s chief, and one for the muezzin who calls the community to prayer.
Ayuba remained in Larabanga for the rest of his life, and when his remains were buried beneath a nearby baobab tree, the leaves were said to have special healing powers. 
By the 1970s the mosque was badly deteriorated and in need of reconstruction. A reconstruction crew applied cement to the walls in the hopes of strengthening them, but the mixture allowed moisture to penetrate the ancient wooden beams. A termite infestation followed, and a storm toppled the weakened minaret. With support from the World Monuments Fund, the Ghana Museums and Monuments Board, and American Express, the conservators then employed local artisans to fix their mistakes. They carefully removed the cement and reapplied a mud paste much like Ayuba had used 550 years prior. The minaret was rebuilt, the walls were whitewashed, and the mosque was restored to its former glory.
Today, perhaps because of the mistakes of the 20th century, the mosque is largely maintained by the local community. They still worship in the ancient building, but they also reap the profits of the many tourists who come to visit the holy site.
----------------------------------------
Title: Ga-Adangbe Caskets - Kane Kwei Carpentry Workshop
Description: The clever workshop that has been designing some of the most unusual coffins imaginable.
Content: When members of the Ga-Adangbe in Ghana die, they move into their next life and affect the living from beyond the grave. To guarantee smooth transfer into the next world, their descendants bury them in elaborate coffins, made to symbolize their lives.
In the 1950s, a fisherman from Accra was buried in a fish-shaped coffin. He had made his livelihood from the sea and wanted to move into his next life in a reflection of the being that had supported him. Shortly after the first symbolic fish coffin was built, a number of skilled carpenters popularized the practice around Accra. Seth Kane Kwei, one of the original creators of the coffins, opened the first special workshop dedicated to making the specialized caskets and the trade began to blossom.
Coffins range from representations of careers, such as the fish or a taxicab, to more detailed depictions of the deceased habits. Alcohol bottle and cigarette-shaped coffins portraying the vice of the dead is also not unknown. Anything representing the life of the family member is chosen, and serves as the vessel guiding the deceased to their next life.
Today, the Ga-Adangbe are well known for their coffins, which often appear bizarre to Western visitors used to solemn funerary rights. Although Ga funerals are still a sad event, the unique coffins allow them to celebrate the life of the deceased and cull favor with their ancestors. Even though many Ga have very low income, they spend massive amounts to buy the specialized coffins, which can cost anywhere from $50 to $600.
Kwei’s sons and grandsons are still designing caskets in a quirky variety of shapes. Their creations range from bananas and robots to firetrucks and spoons - whatever most encapsulates the spirit and personality of the loved one.
----------------------------------------
Title: Black Star Square
Description: An enormous public square and parade ground built to celebrate Ghana's independence.
Content: In 1957, the Ghanaian politician and revolutionary leader Kwame Nkrumah led the Gold Coast, now Ghana, to its independence from Britain. Nkrumah became the first prime minister and president of Ghana, and to celebrate his nation’s newfound autonomy, he commissioned the construction of a huge public square.
Black Star Square, also known as Independence Square, is located in Accra, Ghana, and is now the site for all the major military and civic parades in the Ghanaian capital. It was completed in 1961 to coincide with the state visit of Queen Elizabeth II. The young Queen was keen to keep the unstable African republic within the Commonwealth, and was adamant on making the tour of Ghana despite a spate of bombings that were rocking Accra in protest of Nkrumah’s rule.
From the first parades in honor of the Queen’s visit all the way up to the present day, Black Star Square has hosted all of the country’s major national public gatherings, national festivals, military parades, concerts, and occasional fashion shows. None of these are more important than the Independence Day parades held in the square each year on March 6.
To accommodate spectators at these events, large stands with a total seating capacity of 30,000 surround the edges of the square. And while these stands and the square itself are packed with people during events, the vast space tends to be all but empty on a typical day, save for a few soldiers and a scattering of tourists who come to see the principal monuments that sit on and around the park.
These monuments include the Independence Arch to the south of the square, backdropped by the Gulf of Guinea. On the opposite side of the square but facing the arch is the Memorial of the Unknown Soldier, which honors the Ghanaian soldiers who fell fighting for their country. Just to the north of the main square is a roundabout, in the center of which stands the Black Star Gate, an imposing monument topped by the Black Star of Africa, the five-pointed star that symbolizes Africa in general and Ghana in particular. The monument bears the large inscription “AD 1957” and “Freedom and Justice.”
In terms of overall size, there is an oft-repeated claim that Black Star Square is the second largest city square in the world after Tiananmen Square in Beijing. That, however, is wrong on a few counts. Firstly, Tiananmen Square is not the largest square in the world, but does sit comfortably in the top 10. Secondly, Black Star Square has an approximate area of 1,057,238 square feet (98,220 sq meters), and that’s a generous approximation. That could maybe squeeze the square into the world’s top 30 at best, perhaps rivaling Millennium Park in Chicago. And then, of course, there’s the whole definition of city parks, parade grounds etc. Still, it’s fair to say that Black Star Square could well be the largest square of its type in Africa, and that’s no mean achievement.
----------------------------------------
Title: Sword of Okomfo Anokye
Description: On the grounds of a hospital in Ghana, a legendary sword said to have been plunged into the earth hundreds of years ago.
Content: On the grounds of a teaching hospital in south-central Ghana, a legendary sword is buried in the ground. It is said to have belonged to Okomfo Anokye, a leader of the Ashanti people who plunged it into the earth hundreds of years ago.
Kwame Frimpong Anokye, popularly known as Okomfo Anokye, was a traditional priest and leader of the Ashanti people of Ghana. He helped establish new laws and customs to help reduce the influence of old traditional customs that were negatively influencing its people. Okomfo, which means priest, was an acquired title as he was believed to possess special abilities of healing and of controlling nature.
The sword was used by Okomfo Anokye as a symbol to signify peace and unity among the Ashanti Empire. According to local history, the sword was pushed into the ground over 300 years ago. It is believed that Okomfo Anokye pronounced the sword to be immovable, and so it has remained. This is not due to lack of trying—there have been many attempts, including by well-known figures such as Mohammed Ali, who attempted to remove the sword in 1994. The sword has also attracted much attention over the years and even that of the Queen of England in 1961.
The Okomfo Anokye sword site is also home to the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, as the site is said to be a healing ground. It is also home to the famous golden stool of Asantema, where it was said to have descended from.
----------------------------------------
Title: La Tante DC 10
Description: This grounded passenger jet is now a restaurant, complete with rows of seats and “flight attendant” servers.
Content: Anyone can board the McDonnell Douglas DC-10 passenger jet parked on Airport Road. The aircraft sits along the route to Kotoka International Airport in Accra, Ghana’s capital city, but it won’t take you anywhere. However, the food is a far cry from the tray of disappointment that most passengers are accustomed to picking at while aboard a plane.
Now a restaurant known as La Tante DC 10, this aircraft was once operated by Ghana Airways on flights to Europe and the United States. In 2005, the DC-10 ended up impounded at London’s Heathrow airport as a result of unpaid company debts.
Nearly a decade later, a business partnered with Ghana Airports Company Limited, to transform the retired vehicle into an eatery. Today, curious visitors and residents alike can enjoy unique meal service delivered by waitstaff in flight attendant uniforms. Customers board just as they would an operational vessel, by embarking up a covered stairway. For some, it’s their first look inside an airplane.
The plane’s new management reduced capacity from 380 seats to 118, clearing space for wider walkways and dining tables. First-class seats accented with festive pillows serve as a waiting area and bar seating, while the economy section houses the dining room, which is composed of tables with rows of airplane seats facing each other.
Menu offerings include an extensive array of traditional cuisine, as well as international dishes. Foreign fare, such as spaghetti and sandwiches, populate one section of the menu, but the “Proud to be Ghanian” page offers diners a selection of the country’s authentic culinary mainstays. Don’t miss local specialties such as palm nut soup, grilled tilapia, and garden eggs stew.
Update as of February 2023: The restaurant no longer has a dine-in option on the plane. They only offer food to go and do not allow you into the plane. It is unclear if this is permanent.
----------------------------------------
Title: Agbogbloshie
Description: The world’s largest digital waste dump has become a site where organized criminals hack into confidential government data.
Content: Between 1960 and 1965, the GDP of Ghana increased by nearly 50%. As the country’s economy industrialized, migrants from the rural parts of Ghana flocked to Accra, the largest city in the country, in search of economic relief. The migrants lived in a large slum on the outskirts of Accra called “Old Fadama.” The impoverished neighborhood grew in the 1980s, when another wave of migrants entered the city, fleeing Ghana’s Konkomba-Nanumba War.
The residents who settled in Old Fadama were densely packed - up to 20 Ghanaians sleeping in a single 40 square foot kiosk - with little clean water or health services to be found.
This neighborhood was much like other deeply poverty-stricken areas - that is, until the early 2000s, when the first ships arrived filled with electronic waste - old computers, cameras, television sets, and everything in between - from the United States, Japan, and Europe. The developed world saw Ghana as a dumping ground for their digital leftovers, as it’s cheaper to send unprocessed e-waste off in bulk to a developing country than it is to actually recycle it. 
This activity is illegal under the Basel Convention, but the rich nations used the legal loophole of classifying the garbage as “donations” to “bridge the digital divide” between the developed and developing world.
Suddenly, a section of Old Fadama was designated as a digital dumping ground, known as “Agbogbloshie.” In the years following the first e-waste, the Korle Lagoon, located inside Agbogbloshie, became one of the most polluted bodies of water on the planet, with levels of toxins 100 times the acceptable amount. 
At the same time, the young children of Agbogbloshie began to burn the e-waste for trace precious metals, earning them four to six dollars per day, but in the process exposing their young bodies to toxic and carcinogenic substances, causing, among other things, a lead poisoning rate of 80%. Life in Agbogbloshie was so bad that the region was nicknamed “Sodom and Gomorrah” after the two Biblical cities synonymous with harsh living conditions.
However there was another valuable asset sitting in this Ghanaian e-dump: secrets. When e-waste is shipped from the United States and other Western countries to Ghana, the data is sometimes not properly overwritten or erased - and even if it is, there are unerasable pieces of data called “bad sectors”, which are unreachable by a computer’s transistors and cannot be overwritten. On certain computers, no matter how hard you try, you can’t completely delete every file that goes to an e-dump.
This is a problem, or an opportunity, depending on who you are. Agbogbloshie is filled with hundreds of organized criminals who recover gigabytes of information from the personal computers of ordinary Americans. They can find credit card information, private financial data, and personal memorabilia. 
The US government even dumps their old electronics in Agbogbloshie, many of which contain classified government documents. Once they are dumped, there is a chance that someone will uncover the secret data, and in fact they have. Organized criminals have uncovered secret multi-million dollar agreements from the Defence Intelligence Agency, the Department of Homeland Security, and the TSA. 
These are the unintended consequences, besides the lead poisoning, cancer, and general horror, of rich nations treating someone else’s home as their trashcan.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tourist Office of Mali-ville
Description: This small building is a living testament to the remoteness and warmth of the town that it represents.
Content: No traveller arrives in Mali, a town in the far north of Guinea’s mountainous Fouta Djallon region, without a story to tell. Mali, which is sometimes referred to as Mali-ville to distinguish it from the neighboring country of the same name, is as remote as it is beautiful. The town sits among rolling green mountains that include Guinea’s highest point. Crisp weather and incredibly welcoming people give the area a special feel.
There are basically two ways to reach Mali-ville. You could bump over difficult roads in utterly packed transport for several days from Conakry, or hike or motorbike up across barely extant trails from across the Senegalese border. Coming from Senegal takes two days and requires sleeping the night in the forest or, if you’re lucky, in one of the several villages on the way that exist off the road and electricity network. 
Given the difficult journey, it feels absolutely right and just that the local tourism board maintains an active office to welcome any visitors. The office acts as a food and stationary shop most of the time. But when a visitor arrives, they provide warm welcomes and seem genuinely delighted that someone has come to town.
The office has a fascinating board which shows the number of tourists who have arrived in Mali every year since 1999, when only 20 visitors came through. There have been ups and downs since then, with a peak of 1,300, but always this remote Tourist Office has stood by, ready to give them a proper welcome.
----------------------------------------
Title: Keita Fodeba Centre for Acrobatic Arts
Description: The school produces some of Africa's most talented acrobats and contortionists.
Content: A school like no other, a typical day here might begin with some acrobatics and progress with a trapeze class or a turn on the trampoline. The Centre d’Art Acrobatique Keita Fodeba (Keita Fodeba Centre for Acrobatic Arts) in Conakry, Guinea, trains its young students to perform spectacular acrobatic feats that have astounded audiences world over.
The center was founded in 1998 and it recruits street children and youth to train in acrobatics and contortionism, and also offers pre-professional training and literacy programs. The institution is a training hub for some of Africa’s greatest contortionists and acrobats. Performers from the school have toured internationally in Europe and North America and have sought to work with Cirque du Soleil and other acts. At any given time, it houses around 50 students, aging between 10 and 20. The school’s work has received acclaim from critics and activists alike, and it has been supported by UNICEF.
Visitors are able to come watch the acrobats rehearse in the mornings in their training space near the Dixinn Stadium. The agility and enthusiasm of the young performers make it well worth the visit. Shows are also held in other venues in Conakry.
----------------------------------------
Title: Abandoned Ducor Hotel
Description: Empty since 1989, now falling into ruin.
Content: Once operated by Intercontinental Hotels, this hotel was abandoned in 1989 due to political uncertainty just before the coup and first civil war.
Due to looting and locals taking up residence in the hotel through the years, the hotel is dilapidated and dangers exist throughout. However, able-bodied individuals should be able to navigate the stairways without too much trouble, and the sight from the rooftop - giving a full panoramic view of Monrovia - easily merits the effort.
When the security staff ask you for a “small thing” to enter, just let them know you’re a teacher, Peace Corps volunteer, etc. and they should let you in - and likely escort you through - for two or three dollars.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bomi Blue Lake
Description: An abandoned mine pit is now a beautiful, colorful attraction.
Content: When the Liberia Mining Company began to abandon its operations in Bomi County in northwestern Liberia, it left behind a series of pit mines. But as nature began to reclaim these scars in the Bomi Hills, one of the pits filled with water, creating a beautiful blue lake.
Back in the 1960s and ‘70s, the LMC began operations in the Bomi Hills near the town of Tubmanburg. The company dug a series of huge pits to extract iron ore from the hills, but by the late 1970s, the ore reserves were deemed depleted and the company closed its operations.
The LMC left a landscape pockmarked by pits, so much so that locals began to wryly refer to the Bomi Hills as the Bomi Holes. And the mining company had left so quickly that they even abandoned some of their equipment at the bottom of the craters.
It was a mess, but one that nature slowly began to reclaim. And as it did so, one of the largest pits took on a whole new life of its own. Despite being stuck up in the hills and isolated from any obvious sources of water, the 300-foot-deep pit began to fill with water, likely fed by a spring somewhere down below.
By the end of the 1990s, the lake looked like a totally natural formation. And in 2007, Senator Richard Devine, in whose constituency the lake was situated, began to promote the wonders of what he billed as “a natural phenomenon and …. a wonderful sight to behold.”
“One thing is certain about this lake,” continued the Senator, “Whether rain or shine, it never rises above its banks, nor does it dry. The water level is absolutely stable. It’s a wonderful sight, a haven for hotel and casino development, and of course water sports.”
Senator Devine’s enthusiasm certainly helped draw attention to the Blue Lake, named for its clear blue waters. But so far, hotels and casinos have yet to set up around the lake. There are a few weathered wooden pavilions, but little else. Still, it’s certainly a pretty spot for a picnic.
Despite the lake’s mining history— and the possible presence of mining equipment at its bottom—it was, for a while, the source of bottled Blue Lake mineral water. And it seems that the waters are clean and free from pollution.
But before you go for a swim, as many do, you might want to know about certain sightings by  United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) soldiers stationed in the area. These soldiers have apparently spotted some big snakes in the lake, and locals sometimes speak of a particularly large boa living near the waters of the Blue Lake.
----------------------------------------
Title: Monkey Island
Description: After surviving decades of medical testing and civil wars, these chimpanzees were abandoned on their own islands.
Content: The year was 1974 and the original Planet of the Apes movie starring Charlton Heston had just been adapted into a small screen series. Little did anyone know, though, that out in the remote jungles of Liberia, a New York non-profit and idealistic young scientist were setting in motion what 30 years later would become what many now call the “real-life planet of the apes.”
That non-profit was the New York Blood Center, one of the largest blood banks in the United States. In search of a vaccine for a spate of blood-related diseases, NYBC bankrolled Vilab II, a controversial laboratory led by Betsy Brotman that would go on to conduct medical tests on over 100 chimpanzees.
The chimps were injected with various forms of Hepatitis, onchocerciasis (commonly referred to as river blindness), and a host of other maladies. Once they tested positive for one of the diseases, the animals would be transferred to one of six different islands—that, thanks to chimpanzees’ innate physiological inability to swim—were perfect for keeping the infected subjects away from the regular population.
Vilab continued its work as Liberia crumbled into civil war, first in 1989 and again in 1999. Eventually, though, the lab encountered a conflict that it could not overcome: growing resistance to animal testing back in the U.S. Eventually, the anti-testing outcry reached the highest levels of the U.S. federal government and the National Institute of Health instituted a moratorium on breeding research chimps and declared that most chimp testing did more harm than good. 
In 2005, Vilab was shut down for good and all the chimps, approximately 60 or so, were transferred to a series of nearby uninhabited mangrove islands, where they now permanently live. For the next 10 years, NYBC continued to care for the chimps, hiring many of the original lab staff to take food and water to the islands every other day.
Then, in March 2015, NYBC suddenly withdrew its financial support, stating they could no longer provide for their former subjects’ well-being. Thankfully, the Humane Society stepped up and decided to assume the responsibility of providing long-term care for the chimps, which costs upwards of $30,000 a month.
While her methods eventually fell out of favor, Betsy Brotman and her team’s research did successfully lead to a vaccine for Hepatitis B and a screening method for Hepatitis C. In a 2014 interview, however, Betsy publicly sided with the animal rights activists that eventually caused her lab to close, stating that she no longer believed chimpanzees should be used in experiments.
----------------------------------------
Title: Libassa Ecolodge
Description: This Liberian resort offers comfort, ecofriendly hospitality, and a mission of sustainability.
Content: No palm trees were harmed in the making of Libassa Ecolodge, a sustainable resort nestled amid a palm-forested lagoon in Liberia.
Built on a foundation of conservationist principles, Libassa Ecolodge endeavors to strike a chord of harmony between visitors and the environment through sustainable practices, education, and mindfulness.
A fleet of solar-powered huts comprise the on-site accommodations, which range from the most basic Palaver Hut, a traditional Liberian abode housing a double bed and balcony and constructed with local materials, to the Mangrove Lodge, which hovers over the lagoon with a queen-sized bed, a private pool, and balcony. 
Regardless of how luxurious your lodgings are, each hut is limited to 200 watts of electricity per room, used only in limited amounts via certified low-energy bulbs and appliances. Water use in each hut is restricted, food is composted, and all paper and plastic products must be recycled. For every tree used to build the huts, at least one new seedling was planted in its stead; and none of the surrounding palm trees were cut down to make way for the resort.
On-site recreational activities are equally low-impact and include a small mini golf course, badminton and beach volleyball courts, a ping pong table, diving, snorkeling, bodyboarding, canoeing, horseback riding, and archery. 
To cultivate awareness of local cultures and the ecosystem, Libassa Ecolodge also offers a restaurant that serves up West African cuisine, the opportunity to partake in African and Latin dance lessons, a tranquil wander through a manicured botanical garden, and an animal sanctuary. The lodge aims to become 100 percent renewable through solar and wind power.
----------------------------------------
Title: Liberian National Museum
Description: A comprehensive museum dedicated to Africa's oldest modern republic.
Content: With two devastating civil wars casting a shadow over its modern image, it’s often forgotten that Liberia was the first African republic to proclaim its independence—a feat it accomplished back in 1847. Even more impressive is the fact that this tiny nation, founded by an upstart group that encouraged free African Americans to migrate to Africa, was able to maintain its sovereignty in the face of intense European colonization, which by the time it was over, left nearly 90 percent of the continent’s total landmass in the hands of foreign powers.
These are points of pride for Liberians today—and they are on full display at the Liberian National Museum. The institution is housed in an old executive mansion in downtown Monrovia that was damaged and looted during both civil wars but has been subsequently upgraded and repaired with the assistance of UNESCO. 
While much of the museum’s collection was carried off by rebels and locals exploiting the chaos of the Second Liberian Civil War, several key artifacts remain, including a 250-year-old dining table that Queen Victoria gave to Joseph Jenkins Roberts, Liberia’s first president. 
Today, the museum’s ground floor has an impressive collection of musical instruments, masks, and other crafts that provide a strong introduction to the country’s indigenous tribes and traditions, while the second and third floors chronicle the country’s founding, challenges, and successes, including the recent Ebola epidemic.
----------------------------------------
Title: Robertsport Ghost Ship
Description: After several weeks of radio silence, this abandoned oil tanker washed up on a remote beach in Liberia.
Content: In 2016, this mysterious ship bearing the name Tamaya 1 washed up on the shores of Robertsport, Liberia. After the 60-meter-long ship washed ashore, it took government officials several days to realize what had happened, as the Liberian coast is largely unmonitored. Two days later, the government officials learned about the mystery ship on their shores, the Coast Guard boarded the vessel to investigate. The lifeboats were missing and there was no trace of the crew. The Ministry of National Defense put out a statement saying that the bridge was “gutted by fire” and all documents onboard the ship had been burned to a crisp.
Theories began to circulate about the cause. The Tamaya was an oil tanker bound for Dakar, Senegal, that had last been seen some three weeks before it washed up on the Robertsport beach. Some suspected the crew and ship had been victims of piracy. That theory was dismissed, as the vessel’s last known position was outside of the waters where pirate groups typically operate.
Several months after the incident, the alleged owner, Nigerian national Robert M. Saigba, came to Liberia to meet with government officials. Saigba claimed that the crew was forced to abandon ship to a fishing vessel, leaving behind the Tamaya and their lifeboat. The lifeboat was later found washed up in Edina, Liberia, about 125 miles away.
----------------------------------------
Title: Paynesville Omega Tower
Description: The dead gigantic radio tower of Liberia.
Content: For the implementation of the VLF or Very Low Frequency-Navigation System “OMEGA” in 1976, the US Coast Guard erected a 417 meter tall radio tower, which is taller than any man-made object existing today in the European Union!
Built near Paynesville in Liberia, it served together with seven other stations as part of a worldwide navigation system, and which could be used to communicate with submerged submarines. While VLF has a very low data transmission rate, one of the advantages of VLF is that, unlike higher frequencies, of say VHF or UHF, it can deeply penetrate seawater to reach submarines. (Frequencies such as VLF and ELF, extremely low frequency, have been cited as the casue behind disoriented and injured whales who communicate using the same wavelengths) However by the 1990s, the global satellite system and GPS made OMEGA obsolete and so OMEGA was shut-off on September 30th, 1997 and the station was given back to the government of Liberia.
Unfortunately during this period the government of Liberia was involved in a bloody civil war and had no use for the transmitter and the huge mast, which though it survived the civil war until today, continues to go unused. As there is no access restriction to the mast, it is theoretically possible it could be used for skydiving, powerful transmission experiments and Tesla experiments.
For those Tesla experiments however, one ought not forget, that Liberia is a country with a very unreliable electric power supply, so one should come with their own, very large, power generator.
Update: The Paynesville tower was demolished in 2011.
----------------------------------------
Title: Great Mud Mosque of Djenné
Description: The central mosque of this Mali town is entirely built from mud.
Content: Rising up at the center of Djenné, Mali, is the Great Mosque. Built in 1907, everything from its minarets to its spired walls is constructed from mud.
In fact, the whole historic town of Djenné has been built from this mud architecture since the 14th century, in a tradition passed down from generation to generation. The process involves baking mud and straw bricks in the sun and stacking them to create walls that are then plastered with mud. The mosque (together with some 200 historic homes in the city) requires regular re-plastering to keep its form. 
Recent political upheavals and a drought have threatened the mud architecture of Djenné, and so has the emergence of more modern building materials. However, while some Mali mosques have added electricity and other technology, the citizens of Djenné are dedicated to their historic building and only a loudspeaker system has been incorporated into the structure.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bandiagara Escarpment Cliff Dwellings
Description: These homes carved into the mountains seem to defy the laws of nature.
Content: The Bandiagara Escarpment slices across the hot and dusty lands of the Sahel in Mali for over 100 miles. In itself, Bandiagara is a wonder of nature. The cliffs rise over 1,500 feet in the air in places and range in geographic diversity from desert to cascading waterfalls plummeting onto the plains below.
However, almost more impressive than the landscape are the Dogon homes carved into the escarpment. Although a range of people lived in the area, for over 600 years the Dogon people have made Southern Mali their home, carving everything from simple rectangular homes into the cliff walls to detailed Mosque’s made out of mud and stick. The Dogon’s contribution to the region is immense.
The entire concept of their village is stunning, as homes hang from the cliffs defying all natural bounds of the traditional city. Some of the villages can hardly even be seen as they blend seamlessly with the rocky cliffs that surround them. Others are only noticeable from their thatched roofs, protruding from the sand and rock.
Every aspect of the Bandiagara is strongly punctuated. The escarpment itself rises dustily from the sparse Sahel vegetation below and the homes of the Dogon villages dot the cliffs for miles until the escarpment terminates at the highest peak in Mali, Hombori Tondo.
There are thirty Dogon villages in total across the escarpment and a multitude of Dogon sites aside from the houses. The dramatic landscape has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1989.
Much of the Dogon’s original cultural traditions still exist, including mask rituals and cave shrines. Visitors to the region can also stay directly in the Dogon villages along the escarpment, allowing for a truly unique hostel experience.
----------------------------------------
Title: Timbuktu Manuscripts
Description: Ancient Manuscripts showcase the civilization of West Africans during the Middle Ages.
Content: Hundreds of thousands of ancient manuscripts have been collected in Timbuktu, Mali, the legendary city founded as a commercial center in West Africa 900 years ago.
Hidden in cellars or buried, hid between the mosque’s mud walls and safeguarded by their patrons, many of these manuscripts survived the city’s decline. They now form the collection of several libraries in Timbuktu, which hold up to 700,000 manuscripts. Some were written in the town itself, others (including exclusive copies of the Qur’an for wealthy families) were imported through the lively book trade.
Timbuktu was once a flourishing center of Saharan trade, and the home of a prestigious university, l’Université de Sankoré de Tombouctou, believed to be one of the first in the world. It was known, at its peak, as a city of books.
The manuscripts are written in various styles of the Arabic script and date back to as early as the 13th century. These styles were developed in Timbuktu and the surrounding regions of Mali and West Africa.
Timbuktu’s fortunes came crashing down at the end of the 16th century as trade routes shifted, and by the Victorian era it had become a lonely desert outpost.
The largest single collection of manuscripts in Timbuktu - about 18,000 of them - is housed at the Ahmed Baba Institute. The rest are scattered throughout the city’s many private libraries and collections (like the Imam Essayouti, Al Aquib, and Al Wangara manuscript libraries).
They have suffered the ravages of time, but are at risk, particularly from Mali’s rainy season.
Digital images of the manuscripts were donated by Abdel Kader Haidara, owner and director of the Mamma Haidara Commemorative Library. The Library of Congress will include additional manuscripts in the future as new digital images are received. An exhibit of items from the Mamma Haidara Commemorative Library is available at the Library of Congress.
Started in 2008 as a part of UNESCO’s Memory of the World Programme and a NEPAD Cultural Project, the Timbuktu Manuscripts Project aims to catalogue and preserve the works.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tomb of Askia
Description: The most important and best preserved remnant of West Africa's powerful Songhai Empire.
Content: The Tomb of Askia was built by Askia Muhammad, the Emperor of Songhai, in 1495. Located in Gao, a city in Mali near the banks of the River Niger, the dramatic and notably spiky-looking pyramidal tomb is part of a complex that also includes two flat-roofed mosque buildings, the mosque cemetery, and an open-air assembly ground.
Askia Muhammad was a West African statesman and military leader who took the throne of the Songhai Empire in 1493. He was a highly capable ruler who introduced an efficient administrative system across the lands of his sprawling empire, one of the largest states in African history. He divided Songhai into provinces, each with its own governor, and created new positions for the directors of finance, justice, interior, agriculture, water, and more. He also built a standing army under the command of a general, and appointed an admiral to command his fleet of war canoes.
Askia Muhammad was a pious man and soon established Islam as the religion of the nobles. When Gao became the official capital of the Empire, and Islam was adopted as its official religion, Muhammad ordered the construction of what is now known as the Tomb of Askia.
The centerpiece of the complex is the 56-foot-tall (17 meters) pyramidal structure, today considered the finest remaining example of the monumental mud-building traditions of the Songhai Empire. The style is unique to the West African Sahel, and represents a merger of Islamic tradition and local building practices, which had to adapt to the environment.
The pyramid’s dramatic “spiky” appearance is due to the permanent acacia-wood scaffolding that juts out across its surface. The tomb was constructed with wet plaster and mud, which has to be reapplied every year after the rainy season. As such, the pyramid undergoes an annual remodeling, hence the permanent scaffolding and the fluid, rounded nature of the structure’s outer surface.
As for Askia Muhammad, he was eventually laid to rest and sealed inside the tomb after a family feud of epic proportions. Near the end of his reign, Muhammad was old and half blind, with no one at his side apart from his loyal friend, servant, and adviser, Ali Folen. Knowing that their father was losing his grip on the empire, Muhammad’s children began fighting among themselves.
His eldest son, Musa, unseated Muhammad in 1529 during a bloodless coup and banished his father to an island in the river infested with mosquitoes and toads. From here, the blind Muhammad heard the reports of his warring sons. Musa killed a few of his own brothers and at least 25 of his cousins before his own brothers had him assassinated in 1531.
It was not until 1537 that Muhammad’s son and third successor, Askia Ismaïl, recalled his father to Gao. Muhammad died a year later and was buried inside the Tomb of Askia, which is today one of the most important and venerated mosques in all of West Africa.
----------------------------------------
Title: Djingareyber Mosque
Description: One of Western Africa's oldest mosques, this Timbuktu icon has stood for nearly 700 years.
Content: Since word of the alleged “city of gold” reached Europe in the mid-1500s, “Timbuktu” has become slang for a destination so extremely remote it’s practically unreachable—or perhaps even imaginary.
Among the fabled settlement’s most famed icons is the Djingareyber Mosque, a holy structure and learning center that was built in 1327 and is still in operation today as one of the three mosques that make up the University of Timbuktu.
The Djingareyber Mosque, which was built almost entirely out of mud, straw, and wood, has weathered a long succession of wars, conflicts, and political upheavals over the course of the last eight centuries. The most recent of these occurred in 2012 when militant Islamists captured the city and began terrorizing the local population.
After seizing control of Timbuktu, militants quickly instituted their own draconian version of Sharia law, stoning women for failing to wear proper Islamic attire and cutting off the hands of musicians who were caught violating the totalitarian ban on all forms of music. Soon, their attention turned toward Timbuktu’s historic cultural artifacts, including its ancient Muslim shrines, which they declared forbidden by Islam. The militants destroyed the tombs of seven Muslim saints with hoes and pickaxes, two of which were at Djingareyber. 
The Islamists were pushed out of Timbuktu in early 2013 by French soldiers sent to liberate the city. Despite their defeat, Timbuktu remains a dangerous place to visit and, while Djingareyber and the adjacent museum that houses some of the mosque’s most cherished Islamic manuscripts, are technically open to visitors, reaching the city via commercial means has become practically impossible.
----------------------------------------
Title: Antogo Fishing Frenzy
Description: Annual rush for a sacred desert lake's fish stock.
Content: Once a year, the people of the Dogon rush the sacred Antogo Lake in Mali. In a flurry of activity, the Dogon grab at the water feverishly hoping to snatch a fish.
The lake itself is a rarity in a country comprised mostly of the Sahara desert and the dry steppes of the Sahel, which undoubtedly lends to its importance and sacredness. Although the lake is sacred, it is small and murky, and within minutes the Dogon fisherman empty the lake of all its inhabitants.
Throughout the year, it is illegal to fish in the lake. However, after the ban is lifted, fishermen file into the lake to grab whatever they can during the short-lived Antogo fishing frenzy.
The frenzy occurs during the dry season in Mali, which allows the fish to be easily caught in the shrunken lake. The ritual is strongly based on ancestor worship, and along with other rituals in Dogon culture, women are prohibited from participating.
Although women cannot join in the festivities, legend holds that a young woman discovered the lake and its miraculous fish, starting the chain of ritual fishing in the desert pool. Regardless, the Antogo festival is a spectacle like no other opening day for fishing across the world.
The elders of the Dogon villages decide the date of the fishing frenzy each year but it generally falls in the dry season in the early summer months.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gaddafi Canal
Description: Muammar Gaddafi's well-intentioned investment in his favorite city turned out to be a nightmare.
Content: In 2006, when Muammar Gaddafi was still the dictator of Libya, he paid the city of Timbuktu in Mali a visit to celebrate the birthday of the Prophet Muhammad. He brought in hundreds of people to the city to pray with him in a soccer stadium after declaring himself the imam of the city. Gaddafi declared Timbuktu to be his favorite city publicly, and spoke of his great plans to use his immense wealth to shape it into the best condition it could be. He bought a crumbling and rundown hotel on the outskirts of the city and had it renovated for millions of euros. To allow the guests to travel to the hotel by boat, he also had an 8-mile (13 km) canal dug from the hotel to the river Niger south of the city. 
However, as a result of the Arab Spring in 2011 and the NATO led bombings of Libya, Gaddafi was overthrown and killed by rebels. Following these events, Gaddafi’s projects in Timbuktu started crumbling.  Before long, the canal was silted up and dried.  
As if that wasn’t enough, the canal also proved to be a death trap to locals once it flooded.  What had once been a natural shallow branch of the river Niger had been turned into a deep canal with steep, slippery sandy banks that people and animals couldn’t escape.
----------------------------------------
Title: Dabous Giraffes
Description: These ancient giraffes are the largest known animal petroglyphs in the world.
Content: In the heart of the Sahara lies the Tenere Desert, a flat, waterless wilderness that means “emptiness” in the Tamacheck language of the local Tuareg nomads. We are more familiar with the Arabic word with the same meaning: sahra (Sahara). On the far side of the Aïr mountains lie more than 800 petroglyphs, including an exceptional carving of two towering giraffes.
The Dabous Giraffes were first recorded by Christian Dupuy in 1987. Subsequent field trips brought more attention to the site, and more than 820 individual images have since been found engraved on rocks in the area. Around 700 of these petroglyphs represent animals, including buffalo, ostriches, antelope, lions, camels, and rhinoceros. About 60 petroglyphs represent humans, and 160 or so are open to interpretation.
But it’s the two large giraffes that are the real jewels of the collection. Believed to be between 6,000 and 8,000 years old, the pair of giraffes are engraved onto the gently sloping, weathered surface of a large sandstone rock. Various techniques were used to create them, including scraping and smoothing of certain areas, the deep engraving of the outlines, and low-relief carving of the dots all over the body, which are two to three centimeters deep. For such ancient petroglyphs, the detail is truly impressive.
Then there’s the sheer size of the carvings. The two giraffes are believed to represent a male and a female, with the larger male in front and the smaller female standing behind. The larger of the two is almost 18 feet tall (5.4 meters), or 21.4 feet tall (6.35 meters) when measured from the tip of its ears to the extremity of its hind leg. This makes it the largest petroglyph in the world, and the largest known rock carving of an animal.
Intriguingly, each giraffe also has an etched line leading down from its mouth to an engraved human figure below (something found in other ancient representations of giraffes in the Sahara). Does this perhaps represent a symbolic relationship between giraffes and humans or, more practically, ancient attempts at domestication?
----------------------------------------
Title: Last Tree of Ténéré
Description: The most remote tree in the world survived desertification, but not a drunk truck driver.
Content: The Ténéré wastelands of northeastern Niger were once populated by a forest of trees. By the 20th century, desertification had wiped out all but one solitary acacia.
The Tree of Ténéré, as it came to be called, had no companions for 400 kilometers in every direction. Its roots reached nearly 40 meters deep into the sand. 
The tree had become a sacred object among the nomadic Tuareg people that would pass by it on their journeys, never using it for firewood, or allowing their camels to graze on it. As more desert explorers came across the shockingly hardy plant, it became quite well known and was even included as a landmark on European military maps of the otherwise desolate expanse during the 1930s. When Michel Lesourd of the Central Service of Saharan Affairs first came upon the tree in 1939, he wrote:
“One must see the Tree to believe its existence. What is its secret? How can it still be living in spite of the multitudes of camels which trample at its sides? How at each azalai does not a lost camel eat its leaves and thorns? Why don’t the numerous Touareg leading the salt caravans cut its branches to make fires to brew their tea? The only answer is that the tree is taboo and considered as such by the caravaniers. There is a kind of superstition, a tribal order which is always respected. Each year the azalai gather round the Tree before facing the crossing of the Ténéré. The Acacia has become a living lighthouse; it is the first or the last landmark for the azalai leaving Agadez for Bilma, or returning.”
When a nearby well was dug finally dug, the secret to the miraculous tree’s survival was finally discovered. While the surface of the desert was a wasteland, the Ténéré tree’s roots reached over a hundred feet underground into the water table. But not even its incredible roots could save it from its eventual demise.
For most of its modern life, the tree was the only structure around for 250 miles in any direction, yet despite this, in 1973, a reportedly inebriated truck driver mowed down the acacia. The remains of the tree were relocated to the Niger National Museum in Niamey, and a lonely metal sculpture was put in the tree’s place to commemorate it.
----------------------------------------
Title: UTA Flight 772 Memorial
Description: The world's most remote memorial to the victims of the UTA Flight 772 disaster.
Content: On September 19th, 1989, a Libyan terrorist detonated a suitcase bomb on UTA Flight 772 over the Sahara desert, killing all 170 people on board.
Due to the remote resting place of the wreck, the wreckage is still scattered around the area, a glaring but out-of-sight reminder of the tragedy that happened there. After 18 years of it being nothing but a desert filled with debris, the families of the victims came together and decided to build a monument in one of the most remote places on the globe.
Funded with the 170-million-dollar aid package provided by the Libyan government, trucks were driven almost 44 miles out to transport countless stones to place at the crash site. After two months of grueling work in a brutal climate, the monument was complete. The stones when seen from above resemble a compass with a plane inside it.
Around the edge of the monument are 170 broken mirrors, each mirror symbolizing a victim in the crash. At one end of the monument, one of the plane’s wings stands with its tip pointing up, with a plaque that lists the names of the victims.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lekki Conservation Center
Description: This Nigerian nature reserve is home to the longest canopy walkway in Africa.
Content: The Lekki Conservation Center in Lekki, Nigeria, is an oasis of nature within the urban chaos of Lagos, and the suspended canopy walkway that rises over the reserve is the longest in all of Africa.
The canopy walkway features six towers that rise over 22 feet each. They are connected by a series of suspended (and swinging) walkways that offer a unique (if somewhat harrowing) 360-degree view of this part of the world from high above the treetops. The treetop walk stretches about 1,315 feet long (more than three and a half football fields), setting the record for the longest on the African continent.
Founded in 1990 by the Nigerian Conservation Foundation, the conservation center preserves a large part of the region’s biodiverse coastal ecosystem and educates visitors on the importance of coexisting with nature. The reserve is home to a plethora of wildlife, including monkeys, tortoises, and rare birds.
----------------------------------------
Title: Osun-Osogbo Sacred Grove
Description: The last remaining site of Yoruba worship of the fertility goddess.
Content: This sacred grove of sculptures, shrines and art is dedicated to the Yoruba people’s fertility goddess Osun and is considered to the last of its kind.
According to the Yoruba folklore, the deity or Orisa of fertility is called Osun. Osun had a fight with one of the wives of Sango and changed herself into the Osun River. The grove is considered sacred since the deity is still believed to live within the river. The grove was discovered by an elephant hunter during an expedition. An agreement was made between the goddess and the people that Osun would protect the people if they built a shrine for her and protect the grove. Devotees brought offerings to the goddess and women came for blessings if they were barren.
An Austrian woman by the name of Susan Wenger and several other artists saved the grove from demolition by erecting huge sculptures made of iron and mud. She married a local drummer and lived in Osun Oshogbo until her death. The Osun-Osogbo Grove was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2005.
----------------------------------------
Title: Iyake Suspended Lake
Description: Ado Awaye Mountain and the unique lake that sits near its peak are shrouded in ancient legends.
Content: Ado-Awaye is an ancient site with no shortage of timeless wonder. Founded in 1500, the neighboring mountain communities Ado and Awaye were amalgamated over centuries into the single Ado-Awaye, once ruled over by the King of Ado, a disgraced crown prince from the larger Oyo kingdom.
Hiking the Ado Awaye mountain takes roughly three hours depending on speed. Most of the terrain shifts between rock and forest, beginning with rough steps carved into the mountain. En route to the top, travelers encounter numerous ancient sites. Oke Ishage, or Ishage Rock, is said to be the bringer of rain for Ado-Awaye. When rain is needed, a priest will visit the boulder-like rock and cover its bottom half with a white cloth to usher in rain. Some believe that those touching the rock while making a wish will see their wishes granted.
On the way up the mountain, hikers come across the Esè àwon Àgbà, Yoruba for “footprints of the gods.” Historians theorize these small footprint-sized holes were used for grinding stones several centuries ago, but mythology deems them evidence of walking deities.
Hikers who reach the mountain apex are rewarded by a view of Iyake lake, one of only two suspended lakes—defined as a lake on top of a mountain—in the world. Legend says that beneath Iyake lies another world, a parallel existence ruled over by a goddess of fertility who lives inside the lake.
The exact depth of Iyake is unknown, and legend says that none who enter the lake ever return. It’s rumored that if one puts their foot in the hole near the lake known as Agbómofúnyàké (Yoruba for “collects child and gives to iyake”) when it’s filled with water, the person will be dragged to the bottom. Not all mythology surrounding the lake is sinister though; it is said the lake’s water can cure ailments and disease when used to bathe.
----------------------------------------
Title: Awhum Waterfall and Cave
Description: The waters of these secluded falls are said to have healing powers.
Content: The Awhum waterfall cave is located in a beautiful scenic community, one that emits a kind of old mystic beauty that leaves one feeling like they have been transported back in time.
The cave, which formed as a result of a massive outcrop of granite rock, is a sight to behold. Water cascades down from the top to form a stream at its base with white sand along its shores. The cave itself stands at 30 meters (98 feet) high. The water flowing down the waterfall remains warm throughout the seasons.
Awhum’s waterfall is believed to have healing powers and the ability to ward off evil spirits. Because of this, a monastery was built close to the waterfall site. This has made the waterfall cave a pilgrimage and a prayer center for Christians, the site is sacred and therefore entry to the site is regulated by the monastery.
Awhum (sometimes spelled “Ohum”), is located in a lush green valley in Nigeria’s Enugu State. It is famous not only for its waterfall, but also for its many pristine lakes and streams.
----------------------------------------
Title: Agbokim Waterfall
Description: Seven streams tumble over a cliff, resulting in this dazzling waterfall in the Nigerian rainforest.
Content: In a remote rainforest near the border of Nigeria and Cameroon, seven streams tumble over steep cliffs to form the Agbokim waterfall. During the rainy season, the rushing falls create a thunderous sound and sometimes, for those who are lucky enough to see them, rainbows.
Agbokim waterfall is situated in Etung local government area of Cross River State, about 17 kilometers (10 miles) from the small town of Ikom. Agbokim waterfall is most significant for its multiple adjoining streams, which tumble down to form a mesmerizing cascade of water that flows down to a beautiful pool. The waterfall is surrounded by steep hills and valleys, which makes the hike to the waterfall challenging, yet rewarding.
Agbokim waterfall was discovered in the 1900s by a hunter who later moved his family close to the waterfall. Over time, a community grew in the surrounding area.
The waterfall offers a beautiful and serene environment for nature lovers and lovers seeking a getaway spot as it offers exclusivity and tranquility. Because of its remote location, Agbokim waterfall is not a highly-visited site in Nigeria, although the area has seen an increase in tourism in the last decade. A tour around the waterfall offers a wild array of the wonders and beauty of nature, including frequent encounters with animals such as antelopes, monkeys, and parrots.
----------------------------------------
Title: Zuma Rock
Description: This igneous rock monolith towers above the surrounding landscape just outside the Nigerian capital.
Content: Standing at about 300 meters (980 feet) above the ground, Zuma Rock is one of the highest and largest monoliths in the world. The natural monolith is located in the western part of Nigeria, near the capital city of Abuja.
The rock was found in the 15th century by the Zuba people of Niger State, who called it zumwa, which could translate to “a place of guinea fowls,” due to their abundance around the rock. The Zuba people settled around the rock and came to see it as a spiritual guide, making sacrifices to the rock to keep them safe from harm. Because the landmark offered a clear view of the surrounding landscape, it was also used as a defensive position from other invading tribes.
Zuma Rock is composed of igneous rock, specifically gabbro and granodiorite. The natural runoff of water has left the rock surface with a human-like facial feature imprinted on the rock, with features like, mouth, nose, and eyes. The rock tends to get alight with fire during the rainy season. Friction created moving rocks caused by the sliding slope of the rock and during this, the fire comes up.
It has become one of the most prominent landmarks in Nigeria, and since 1999 has been printed on the country’s 100 naira notes. Hiking up to the top of the rock takes about five hours.
----------------------------------------
Title: Abuja Airplane House
Description: A labor of love and aviation in Nigeria.
Content: Driving South into Abuja on the main highway, it is impossible to miss the Abuja Airplane House. Rising above the city on a grassy hill, the massive villa of the Said family is visible from a mile away.
Liza Said, a Lebanese immigrant to Nigeria had always loved traveling. She and her husband, a contractor named Jammal, married in the 1980s and were living in Nigeria. Willing to promise the world for her love, Jammal agreed to one day build a plane-shaped home for her as a symbol of their love and her love of travel. For years, the promise remained unfulfilled, until the in the early 1999, the Said family found the perfect location for their dream home.
Construction began in 2002, with Jammal overseeing every step of the process. Wanting to make everything perfect for his wife, Jammal began work on a 100-foot long plane with a wingspan of 50 feet extending over the sides of the hilltop villa. Spanning the entire roof, the body of the plane features a kitchen and a computer room inside the cockpit that looks out over Abuja.
Along with the main villa, the property features a number of other aircraft-styled structures. Behind the main house is a smaller, plane-topped guest house and a two-story security booth created to resemble an aircraft control tower.
----------------------------------------
Title: Esie Figurines
Description: More than 1,000 stone figures were discovered in a small Nigerian town, where they had been sitting for centuries.
Content: Esie is a small town in Nigeria’s Kwara state that lies in the south-central part of the country. It is most famous for being home to the largest collection of stone carvings in Africa. These stone carvings were first discovered by a hunter in 1775. The true origins of the Esie figurines remain unknown, though many theories have been put forward to explain them.
The figurines are made from steatite stone, also known as soapstone. When they were found, the figurines were in a circular arrangement. They depict men, women, children, and animals in sitting or kneeling positions. Some are holding onto agricultural tools or musical instruments. The figurines vary in height, and each weighs between 0.55 to 140 kilograms.
It is estimated that the pieces were carved sometime between the 12th and 15th centuries. Some scholars believe that the figurines are associated with an ancient Yoruba kingdom located nearby. One popular explanation for the carvings says that the figurines were once a community of people who were cursed by the gods and turned into stone.
The Esie figurines first gained public attention in 1933, thanks to the effort of H.G Ramshaw, a missionary in Nigeria. In 1945, a museum was built near the site where the figurines were found (it was the first official museum established in Nigeria). 
More recent excavation at the site has revealed more figurines are still buried. Current estimates put the total at about 1,000 to 1,500 figurines. Figures from Esie can also be found at the Nigerian National Museum in Lagos and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
----------------------------------------
Title: Prayer Mountain Hanwa
Description: This collection of Christian churches are nestled in the cracks of a rocky hill in Northern Nigeria.
Content: Nigeria is separated by the Christian South and Muslim North. The political structure of the north consists of seven influential Muslim Emirs and other religious leaders working in parallel with the government. 
Zaria, a large town in Kaduna state, is the seat of one of the seven Emirs. However, it also hosts a substantial migrant community from the south. This community is predominantly Christian, speak a different language, and face political and economic marginalization.
Without the land and funds to construct major churches, Zaria’s Christian community designed several hidden places of worship on the outskirts of town. Many are located along a rocky crag known as Prayer Mountain Hanwa. 
From the top of the hill, a surprisingly diverse collection of religious spaces reveal themselves. These range from established brick churches and simple metal shacks, to caves spray-painted with crosses. Worshipers can be seen climbing the hill at any time of day. 
On a Sunday, the hill and community at its base reverberate religious music that creates a surreal feeling of being transported to the south of the country. The worshipers are very welcoming to the few out-of-town visitors who make it to this little-known region. They are more than happy to show visitors the magic they’ve created on this rocky hill.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gidan Rumfa (Emir's Palace)
Description: Walk through history in a palace that has seen centuries of Muslim rulers.
Content: Constructed in the 15th century, the Emir’s palace in Kano is the longest continued seat of power for a ruling authority in Sub-Saharan Africa. In the Hausa language, the palace is known as Gidan Rumfa after the Sultan Muhammad Rumfa, under whom the palace was constructed, or Gidan Sarki, which translates as “Emir’s house.” The campus now spans 33 acres; It is a centerpiece of Kano city and is considered one of the best-preserved examples of traditional Hausa architecture in Nigeria.
In traditional Hausa architecture, compound family homes are thought of as a microcosm of a city or town, complete with walls, an entrance gate, and multiple living spaces designed around an open courtyard. Elaborately carved pinnacles outside the home, called Zankwaye, historically signify prestige and social status. Although parts of the palace were rebuilt in the early 19th century when the Sokoto caliphate defeated the Hausa kingdom in war, there are still original Zankwaye on display more than 500 years after Gidan Rumfa’s original construction. Today, its living quarters are home to the current Emir Aminu Ado Bayero II, and the full compound contains several schools, living spaces, offices, gardens, and mosques.
Visitors are best served when aligning their trips to Gidan Rumfa with Kano’s famed Durbar festival, a four-day celebration held after Eid al-Fitr at the close of Ramadan and Eid al-Adha, at the end of the annual Hajj pilgrimage. The festival has contested origins, combining the importance of a pre-colonial horsemanship culture with a spectacle contrived by the British colonial governors meant to reinforce feelings of loyalty and patriotism with the indirect rule perpetuated by imperialism.
The equine focus of the festivities dates back to the 14th century, with each day celebrated with an elaborate horse ride to different quarters of the city by the Emir and his entourage. The second day of the Durbar festivities features the Jahi, a break-neck cavalry salute to the Emir by his horsemen in a scene that draws thousands of spectators due to its dramatic charging of horses. The Jahi takes place outside the gates of the Gidan Rumfa, and can be traced back to the Sultan Muhammad Rumfa.
----------------------------------------
Title: Kenneth Dike Library
Description: Not only does this library house unique Arabic manuscripts, but it was also designed to keep the building cool during warm days.
Content: In 1948, this magnificent library was constructed as part of the University of Ibadan. Named after professor Kenneth Dike, the first indigenous Principal, and former Vice-Chancellor, the design is heralded as an amazing example of  “tropical modernism.” The library was created by Maxwell Fry and Jane Drew, two artists that pioneered the Modern Movement in England. The library is covered in patterned sunscreens, a popular architectural feature at the time. These panels keep the building cool during hot days as the screens deflect sunlight. 
While the architecture of the building has been recognized for its uniqueness, it’s what’s inside that truly makes this library a gem of Nigeria. Amid the library’s collection are around two million books, journals, and other academic resources. These include ancient Arabic manuscripts and text, along with documents from the country’s colonial period. 
The entire library contains around 3,000,000 volumes and seats 1,550 readers. There are also multiple branches of the library that can be found both on and off-campus.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nike Centre for Art and Culture
Description: Not your average art gallery, this massive center hosts 8,000 works from artists across Africa—and it’s free to the public.
Content: You haven’t been overwhelmed by art until you’ve entered the Nike Art Center, a whopping five stories jam-packed with around 8,000 different pieces of artwork. The massive building, said to be the largest gallery in West Africa, is open to the public for free and regularly features a diverse legion of up-and-coming African artists alongside household names.
The center was founded by Nike Davies-Okundaye, who grew up steeped in her family’s culture of textile making, dyeing, weaving, and painting. She’s credited with teaching thousands of young Nigerian artists over the last 40 years, as well as providing exhibition space for showing works.
Located outside of Lagos proper in the suburb of Lekki, the Nike Art Gallery is akin to a maze once you leave the first floor, which beyond sculpture and paintings includes a visitor’s desk and several couches arranged for guests’ comfort, with wine on offer. The next four floors are covered nearly floor-to-ceiling in canvases of all sizes, interspersed with sculptures, beading work, and textile art. Visitors won’t find a section where a single artist is featured solo, rather works are spread across the gallery no matter the prominence of the artist—Davis-Okundaye included. The higher you ascend, the less the air conditioning reaches, so be warned as you access the top rooms, which can be especially stuffy when electricity is down.
Photography is only allowed with visitors in the frame, so don’t snap pictures of the artwork by itself. Tour guides are highly recommended to learn about the art on display, and generally operate on a tip basis. Group tours, however, are priced depending on size. Unlike many museums, all the artwork you see is for sale at price points that range from a few hundred dollars to more than $20,000.
A shop on the gallery property also offers handmade jewelry, bags, textiles, clothing, and accessories. Dancers are often present onsite and perform traditional Yoruba dances for visitors. Lucky visitors may even get a chance to meet personally with Davies-Okundaye, who works out of the gallery.
----------------------------------------
Title: Makoko
Description: What started as makeshift fishermen's housing has grown into a massive, floating community.
Content: Makoko is located on the coast of mainland Lagos, and is considered an “informal” community. A third of the area it covers consists of buildings, shacks, and shanties constructed on stilts in the shallow Bay of Lagos, which has led to it often being called the “Venice of Africa.” While it’s impossible to get an accurate count, the population of the area is in the many tens of thousands, and has been estimated as high as 250,000.
Established in the early 19th century, Makoko has a diverse history that began when fishermen from nearby Togo and the Republic of Benin settled in the area. In the century since, this community continues to endure despite cultural, political, and environmental struggles. In 2012, conflicts with the local government led to approximately 3,000 people being displaced from their homes and the death of one local. Things have calmed since that time, but locals continue to be wary.
It’s not easy to get to Makoko, and it’s not recommended to try to explore the area on your own. Tour companies have negotiated with Makoko leaders in the past to offer tours to experience what the area has to offer.
----------------------------------------
Title: Makoko Floating School
Description: The innovative Nigerian floating school that may just be a glimpse into the future of design in a world of troubling climate changes.
Content: Every school day, close to 100 Nigerian children from the coastal city of Lagos head off in boats to a most unusual schoolhouse on the water.
The 3-storey, A-frame structure bobs on the waves of the lagoon that lines the waterfront slum of Makoko. A severely overcrowded water community that already hosts a stilted fishing village with a population in the tens of thousands, Makoko was an ideal location to test out this eco-friendly architectural model.
Designed by NLE Architects, the  Makoko Floating School is part of a “pilot project” that will unfold in a total of three phases, the school’s completion in 2014 marking the completion of phase one. The project is an attempt to tackle both Makoko’s specific needs and the urgency to provide sustainable living solutions as climate change continues to directly affect coastal communities at large. The goal? To create alternative, green building systems that can support rapid urbanization and adapt to climate-induced issues that could affect infrastructure. 
Already nominated for the Designs of the Year 2014 by the Design Museum in London, Nigerian architect Kunlé Adeyemi’s floating school seems like a very promising option. The A-frame structure sits atop 256 recycled plastic barrels, and is made mostly of wood and local materials. Its triangular shape allows for several levels, its low center of gravity providing stability even in high winds.
The classroom is located on the 2nd tier, the roof providing an open air environment, and uses PV cells on the roof and a rainwater system to boost sustainability. The lower level is used as a playground while school is in session, and when school gets out for the day, it becomes a community space for village residents to fish and relax in the cool shade the naturally ventilated structure provides.Ideally, if “phase one’ shows itself to be a viable living option, communities like those in Lagos that are plagued by increasingly devastating floods and increased rainfall shouldl be able to retreat to the waters. The final stages of the project involve creating other community serving buildings and lashing them together-one beautiful, eco-friendly floating city on the ever-expanding waters of the Makoko lagoon.
 Update: The Makoko Floating School collapsed in 2016.
----------------------------------------
Title: Lake Retba
Description: This deceptively salty lake looks like blushing pink lemonade.
Content: Evoking visions of Candyland fantasies, the princess-pink waters of Lake Retba are deceptively inviting.
White beaches and sandy dunes call to tourists, film crews, and even play host to the finish line of the Dakar Rally. As tempting as it appears, despite its popularity, and the fact that you will often see people wading through the pink waves, Lake Retba is not the friendliest of waters, and that white sand is mostly salt.
Also known as Lac Rose, this unique lake lies just north of the Cap Vert Peninsula of Senegal, northeast of Dakar. Its salt content rivals that of the Dead Sea, which makes for increased human buoyancy, as well as a busy salt industry. Salt collectors arrive daily at the lake, covered in shea butter to protect their skin from the harsh salinity, and spend seven hours a day collecting the precious mineral from the lakebed. It is estimated that about 1,000 people work around the lake on a daily basis, and harvest some 24,000 tons of salt each year. Extracted salt is mostly used for fish preservation.
The water in Lake Retba constantly changes hues, but the most stunning pink shade appears during the dry season, roughly from November to June. During windy weather and during the short wet season from July to October, the lake’s color is not strikingly pink due to the rain, which dilutes the salinity. The salt-loving microorganism Dunaliella salina, combined with high mineral concentration and the intensity of the summer sun, are the reason for the cotton candy-colored water. With the salt levels reaching up to 40 percent, the lake can sometimes take a more sinister shade, appearing blood red, a much less comforting place for your imagination to go when gazing out upon the surreal view.
----------------------------------------
Title: House of Slaves
Description: Despite a fraught and controversial history this African island holds a powerful monument to the tragedy of the slave trade.
Content: The transatlantic slave trade is largely consigned to public consciousness and history textbooks, but there exists many places where the full force of humanity’s cruelty can still be heartbreakingly felt, even if the place didn’t see much slavery itself.
The House of Slaves on Gorée Island, Senegal is just such a place. The island itself, resting off the coast of Dakar, the capital of Senegal emits a rather somber vibe, something that more resembles a graveyard than a tropical island. There seems to be a respectful understanding that underneath the gentle sound of the sea breeze lurks the pain and silent screams of its past. Acting as a stopover where enslaved African people would be processed and shipped away, the House of Slaves was a market where Africans would be shipped by middlemen from mainland West Africa, and then traders could visit, and purchase enslaved people before leading them through what is now called the Door of No Return, filling small boats before returning to their main vessel stationed just off the island. The island is believed to have processed hundreds, perhaps thousands of enslaved men, women, and children, with some estimates even suggesting millions. However, many scholars have called the veracity of the island’s legacy and its House of Slaves into question.
Historians are yet to settle the numbers, but it has been argued by many that the site was a minor location in the slave trade, and some have even questioned whether it was a part of it at all. Regardless of the actual numbers, most agree that what matters is the island’s symbolism, and the House of Slaves is best considered a memorial as opposed to a historic site. 
The voyage of enslaved people from the west coast of Africa to the Americas was known as the Middle Passage. Enslaved people endured traumatic conditions on slavers’ ships, including cramped quarters, disease, meager rations, and physical and sexual assault.
The House of Slaves itself is now a museum. An evocative structure complete with iron shackles and dingy cells where the slaves were said to have been crushed together in horrifying darkness, awaiting their inescapable fate. The historical controversy aside, the site’s power as a grim testament to one of our species’ darkest eras has garnered visits from such luminaries as Nelson Mandela and Barack Obama.
----------------------------------------
Title: The Great Green Wall of Africa
Description: Over 4,700 miles of trees being planted to hold back the desert.
Content: The Great Wall of China was built over a millennium to ward off nomadic raiders. With Africa’s farmlands threatened by an enemy more pernicious than any Mongolian horde, Senegal is leading a 12-nation cooperative effort to erect a living defense system aptly named, the Great Green Wall of Africa.
The Sahara is currently the second largest desert in size, only smaller than Antarctica. However, unlike its frozen relative, the Sahara is actually expanding. The United Nations estimates that, by 2025, two thirds of Africa’s arable land will be covered in Saharan sand, vastly expanding the current 9 million square kilometers. Even if these predictions prove aggressive, the effects of farmland destruction on a continent already hard-pressed for food would be devastating on any level.
With this peril in sight, the leaders of Senegal, Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Sudan, Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Djibouti have banded together on an unprecedented endeavor to stave off impending catastrophe. Once complete, Africa’s Green Wall will be a manmade forest of drought-resistant trees (principally acacia) stretching across the entire continent.
Nine miles wide and 4,750 miles long, the vision for the project is as ambitious as it is necessary. Thus far, only 330 miles of greenery stand guard in Northern Senegal, costing the Sengalese government over $6 million since the start of digging in 2008. International organizations have pledged over $3 billion to the monumental defense system.
Leaders point out that the Great Green Wall is about more than just protection from windblown sand. The project will bring thousands of jobs to impoverished communities, and has already transformed otherwise unusable land into gardens scattered with tree nurseries. The influx of tourists, scientists, and medical professionals has also brought attention and resources to a neglected region in which aid is scarce and doctors are not readily available for the needy populations.
----------------------------------------
Title: African Renaissance Monument
Description: This giant statue is the product of a mixture of corruption, Stalinist architecture, and North Korean manpower.
Content: Dedicated in 2010 the massive African Renaissance Monument is a towering piece of brutal Stalinist machismo that is intended to celebrate the achievements of the African people but will likely be better remembered for the corruption and unpopular alliances that led to its construction.
The monument, which sits atop a hill surrounded by trash heaps and unfinished homes, depicts a man, woman, and child who are ostensibly meant to be African yet look glaringly like chiseled Soviet caricatures. The statue would not be quite so alarming if it were not for its sheer size, topping out at over 160 feet of bronze nationalism or a little more than half the height of the Statue of Liberty. This makes it the tallest statue in Africa.
The statue was the idea of then President of Senegal, Abdoulaye Wade. Wade was an octogenarian whose presidential service was marred by allegations of widespread corruption and nepotism, accusations that were only strengthened by the construction of the African Renaissance Monument.  
Opponents of the statue noted that the endeavor cost the Senegalese government over $27 million despite a country-wide economic crisis. In addition to the exorbitant price tag, the statue received a great deal of criticism due to the fact that it used very few African people in its creation. Despite claims to the contrary, it seems that the piece was designed by a Romanian architect and subsequently built by a North Korean construction firm. The design itself has also come under fire for its startlingly sexist overtones given the ripped male figure seemingly rescuing a damsel whose single breast has been revealed in the swoon.  
However despite the myriad protests and complaints, the African Renaissance Monument was completed in 2010. The giant landmark is expected to bring a great deal of tourist revenue to the country, however in a fiercely contested move, Wade himself claims 35% of all such revenue citing intellectual property rights. It seems like the renaissance might have a bit farther to go.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bantyii Dibiterie
Description: A smoky doorway in Dakar leads to one of the city’s great communal eating experiences.
Content: In Sandaga Market, the bustling heart of downtown Dakar, smoke emanates from an unmarked doorway in a crumbling multistory building. Inside the dark and smoky interior is possibly the most interesting and least advertised restaurant in Dakar. 
This is Bantyii, one of the best-loved dibiteries in Dakar. Dibi is Dakar’s top street food: simply marinated chunks of meat, usually from sheep but also including chicken and beef, skewered and cooked up over charcoal on basic metal grills and served with baguettes, onions, and mustard. This preparation is popular across the region and many Dakar dibiteries are run by foreigners, especially from the Hausa community in Niger. In fact, Bantyii is not a single restaurant but really a collection of six or seven grills run by different dibi experts from Niger, Mali, Guinea, and Senegal. The customers are just as diverse, from working people getting their day’s main meal to wealthy residents enjoying an appetizer before a fancy dinner.
Bantyii feels like a portal to the warm, tolerant heart of Dakar. Some people say this is the favorite dibiterie of Dakar’s musical legend, Youssou N’Dour; visit once, and you’ll understand why.
----------------------------------------
Title: IFAN Museum of African Arts
Description: Dakar is home to one of the oldest African art institutions in West Africa.
Content: Seminal artworks and artifacts from Mali, the Ivory Coast, Guinea Bissau, Burkina Faso, and beyond inhabit the l’Institut Fondamental d’Afrique Noire (IFAN Museum of African Arts) in the Senegalese capital. 
The museum’s noteworthy collection presents an important glimpse into West African history and the visual cultures that comprise this region. Ritual masks, instruments, clothing, and weapons occupy the IFAN Museum, one of the oldest and most prominent institutions dedicated to the research and exhibition of West African art and artifacts.
Founded in 1936, the museum was formerly entitled Le Musée d’Art Africain de L’Institute Fondamental d’Afrique Noire Cheikh Anta Diop IFAN/CAD and then The Théodore Monod African Art Museum (named after the French naturalist Théodore Monod). Its establishment was notably supported by the first Senegalese president, Léopold Senghor, who served between 1960 and 1980.
Today, the IFAN Museum also serves as the principal site of the Dakar Biennale (also referred to as Dak’Art and the Biennale de l’Art Africain Contemporain), a Dakar-based bi-annual exhibition of contemporary African art in operation since 1996.
----------------------------------------
Title: Fadiouth Shell Island
Description: An island made out of shells, including a cemetery.
Content: Each step you take in Fadiouth is accompanied by a muted crunching of hundreds of clam shells. Streets are covered in layer after layer, and the entire island is built on millions of shells that have accumulated over generations.
Shells are a part of everything in the town and are incorporated seamlessly into the architecture as well. While the streets paved in bivalves draw quite a crowd, the second shell island, connected to Fadiouth via stilted wooden bridge, is the true gem of the area.
Known only for its cemetery, the second island is also completely made out of shells. Although its simple and barren landscape could easily be ignored, the island is in fact very special. 90% of people in Senegal adhere to Islam, yet this entire island attached to Fadiouth is dedicated to a cemetery of simple graves, marked by white Christian crosses. Also buried in shells, the cemetery is a strange monument to the minority religion of the nation, and has adapted to the island’s shell landscape to form a beautiful graveyard.
----------------------------------------
Title: Langue de Barbarie
Description: A tree seems to grow from the ocean floor on this strange strip of sand slowly being overtaken by the sea.
Content: A slim stretch of sand pokes just above the waters off Africa’s western coast. While looking at the landmass from the shore, you may see pelicans floating around a tree that looks like it’s growing from the ocean floor. It’s the remnants of a peninsula that once barred a river from meeting the sea. 
Stretching south from Saint-Louis, the Langue de Barbarie National Park is a narrow peninsula of sand that has historically been the nesting grounds for sea turtles and many species of migrating birds. Originally, the park sprawled uninterrupted from the edge of the city miles down to the mouth of the Senegal River, where it was marked by Fort Balacoss in Gandiol.
In 2003, heavy rains in the region caused the Senegal River to rapidly rise, causing great concern about potential flooding in the historic city of Saint-Louis. Unknown people surreptitiously dug a 13-foot-wide canal into the peninsula the middle of the night in an attempt to lessen the flood waters encroaching upon city. But their attempt to stave off the flood went differently than planned as nature once again took control. The canal became a gateway for the water to begin invading the land.
Within a month, the canal had stretched by thousands of feet and caused the former end of the river to fill with silt and finally close. Soon, the salinity of the river delta changed dramatically and the freshwater fish disappeared upriver. Many local fishermen were forced to change their livelihoods, causing some river fishermen to turn to the sea and even more to take their boats north to Spain and beyond. The breach continued to expand for miles, eventually letting the sea swallow several luxurious hotels. Much of the peninsula vanished beneath the water, essentially transforming the park into something better resembling a small island.
Despite the changes to the region caused by the breach, the Langue de Barbarie still hosts many populations of migrating and local birds. Local communities are attempting to adjust to the challenges of being newly exposed to the direct force of the Atlantic ocean and the increasing salinity of their farmlands.
----------------------------------------
Title: Niokolo Koba Park
Description: This park was designated by UNESCO as an Endangered World Heritage site.
Content: For visitors traveling through Senegal and desire to catch a glimpse of wildlife in their natural environment, the National Park Niokolo Kobe located in the eastern section of the country is the ideal place to visit. 
The park was established as a reserve in 1925 and was declared a national park in 1954. The park runs along the upper region of the Gambia River and was inscribed as a UNESCO World Heritage site in the 1980s.
A wide range of different species and animals call this region home. It’s believed that some 60 species of fish and around 80 mammals live on the reserve. For more adventurous travelers, a small swinging boat on the river allows for a closer view of the hippos and crocodiles that swim in the water and sunbathe along the river rocks. 
The center of the park is set in a new, modern wooden structure by the river. It’s the perfect spot to watch the sunset.
----------------------------------------
Title: Gorée Island
Description: This tiny, tranquil Senegalese island serves as a powerful symbol of the Atlantic slave trade.
Content: Gorée is a peaceful island of about 45 acres with a permanent population of around 1,600 people. Pastel-colored houses sit along quiet cobbled streets, and there are no cars to shatter the calm. Historically, however, the island, with its deep harbor and defendable shores just off the coast of Senegal, has been fought over frequently by colonial powers, including the Portuguese, Dutch, British, and French.
The island is perhaps best known for its role as a strategic trading post for the transatlantic slave trade. Its most famous building, the House of Slaves, was, by some accounts, the first stop for around 20 million African enslaved workers. And while the actual extent of Gorée’s involvement has been questioned by historians, it nonetheless serves as a symbol—a “memory island”—of the Atlantic slave trade.
Though slavery existed in Africa before Europeans arrived, the demand for enslaved people in the European colonies of the Western Hemisphere greatly expanded the African slave trade beyond taking people captive in war. Central Africa lost as much as one-third of its population during the early years of colonial rule.
Prime ministers, president, and popes have visited Gorée in recent years, including Pope John Paul II, Nelson Mandela, and Barack Obama. They, like the many tourists who make the pilgrimage to the island, toured Gorée’s various museums and the remains of colonial-era forts. And, of course, the House of Slaves, which sits at the heart of the experience. The former trading house serves as an emotional memorial to the brutality and suffering unleashed by the Atlantic slave trade. Reconstructed and opened as a museum in 1962, it displays the horrific treatment that enslaved people would have experienced in trading houses, where they were treated not as humans but as chattel.
Tours take visitors through the Door of No Return. According to one of the museum’s main founders, the late Boubacar Joseph Ndiaye, as many as 15 million enslaved men and women passed through this door, never to see their continent again. Visitors also walk through the cramped basement cells, where guides point out shackles on the walls. Upstairs, the museum displays chains for the neck, ankles and feet; various tools used for punishments; and a 17-pound, cast-iron ball that was chained to any enslaved person suspected of daring an escape.
----------------------------------------
Title: Cap Manuel's Abandoned Bunker
Description: This abandoned bunker looks out over the Atlantic from its clifftop perch.
Content: First person account from Atlas Obscura user La Tortue Noire:
“The man shakes his head and puts his arm in front of his eyes. The answer is clear, he doesn’t want me to take a close picture of him. I don’t know his name, we don’t understand each other. He seems to be living there, half fisherman maybe, half homeless. All his stuff is laying on the floor in colored plastic bags. Fish bake in the sun. The heat is so strong you can nearly touch it in the air.
We are in an abandoned bunker built on top of a high cliff at Cap Manuel, south of Dakar, Senegal. The place is called “the cave” by locals (“la caverne”, in French).
I found the bunker randomly, saw it in the distance. To go there you need to walk across bushes and take care not to slip on the red dust. The cliff being very close, I recommend paying attention to where you walk. Falling down here would be tragic, and the waves are so strong I guess no one but the hawks circling in the sky would ever know.”
Dakar is built on a arrow of land, pointing West, and nowhere else on the African continent can you walk further into the Atlantic. My intention reaching Cap Manuel was to stare at the ocean, straight ahead, but to the South, not to the West and the Americas. Cap Manuel is a very particular place indeed as there is no land in front of you before you reach Antartica, 6,000 miles behind the horizon (9800 km). I wanted to take a look at this immensity. And when I got there, I saw the bunker.
I first set foot on the roof. The view down the cliff is tremendous. The wind blows so hard I find it dangerous to stand on the ledge very long; there is no protection here. The waves rush onto the rocks, the noise is astounding. It seems that the roof is quite accurately facing South, it’s like a plane runway ready for take-off.
I spent a few minutes there, staring at the horizon (and rehydrating after the walk in the sun), thrilled by the view and the remote place. Then I saw the stairs going down into the bunker. While I was inside, four or five young men stopped by, bringing the man in the bunker more plastic bags. No words were exchanged. They stared at me, surprised, but did not ask anything. I have no clue what this was all about.
But I know that the man there lives in the sky. The platform in front of the bunker, where the sentinels probably stood, is now his own balcony on top of the cliff. Does he know, when he looks at the ocean every day, how far the next piece of land is?”
----------------------------------------
Title: Mosque of the Divinity
Description: This unique religious structure is an architectural gem with arresting ocean views.
Content: It was 1973 when a holy man by the name of Mohamed Gorgui Seyni Guèye envisaged a grand mosque on the beach. He took his dream as a prophecy and a commandment from the Lord. 
The sacred site was indeed built on a beach in the ancient fishing village of Ouakam outside Dakar, completed in 1997. It’s known as the Mosque of the Divinity (Mosquée de la Divinité).
Designed by the architect Cheikh Ngom, the Divinity Mosque is a sublime religious structure characterized by two towering minarets offering unparalleled views of the Atlantic Ocean. Since the mosque was unveiled, it’s become both an important Muslim pilgrimage site and a breathtaking point of interest for curious travelers.
Visitors consider the mosque a must-see in the Senegalese capital of Dakar, not only for its sheer size and the panorama it offers, but as a unique architectural monument that melds elements of modernism with traditional Islamic design. From the top of the surrounding cliffs, the view looking out over the mosque backdropped by the ocean is picture-perfect.
----------------------------------------
Title: Henriette Bathily Women's Museum
Description: This Dakar museum exhibits artworks and artifacts honoring the daily lives of Senegalese women.
Content: Billed as “a tribute to all women,” the Henriette Bathily Women’s Museum was founded in 1994 on the small Senegalese island of Gorée. It operated there for two decades before moving to Dakar, where the space remains dedicated to exhibitions and educational programs about female Senegalese life.
Annette Mbaye d’Erneville, Adama Cissé Wellé, and Ousmane William Mbaye teamed up in partnership with the Consortium of Audiovisual Communications in Africa to create an institution that focuses on female history and culture in Senegal.
Named after Henriette Bathily, the director of a ballet company and a supporter of female African artists, the Henriette Bathily Museum aims to direct increased attention to the important parts women play in Senegalese society, including their social roles in the community and their place in ritual and art depending upon ethnicity.
Through exhibitions, research, the development of archives, and museum journals, the museum endeavors to attract national and international interest in Senegalese culture through a female lens.
----------------------------------------
Title: Joal-Fadiouth Fishing Port
Description: West Africa's largest fishing port honors its artisanal fishing process.
Content: Joal-Fadiouth is one of the most important fishing ports of Senegal, and the largest artisanal fishing port in West Africa. Every step of the fishing process is handled in the traditional manner here, for example, the fishermen use pirogues, which are flat-bottom wooden boats small enough to easily take on land. Before exported to neighboring countries, the fish are dried on hundreds of wooden shelves in the pungent “fish drying zone” in the eastern part of the village. This zone covers acres of land.
Like clockwork, the Joal-Fadiouth covered fish market is overwhelmingly crowded at five o’clock in the evening, when the fishermen get back from their pirogue adventures. Locals and tourists alike jockey for there share of the fresh catch. The market is on the right side of the village close to the beach, while the drying zone is to the east.
Adapted with permission from Exploguide.com dedicated to travelers looking for alternative and off the beaten track travel.
----------------------------------------
Title: Faidherbe Bridge
Description: A 19th-century architectural masterpiece with ties to Gustave Eiffel.
Content: The town of Saint Louis, set on an island at the mouth of the Senegal River, is a must-see location if you are traveling through Senegal. At the end of the 19th-century when the country was still a French colony, the governor decided that the old bridge composed of 40 floating pontoons needed to be replaced.
The links of the new bridge were crafted by Gustav Eiffel and were originally designed to cross the Danube. In 1897, the bridge officially opened to the public. Composed of several iron arches, the bridge has a central mechanism that turns on a pillar to allow boat passage. The entire structure spans more than 1,000 feet (500 meters) and is UNESCO World Heritage-listed, along with the entire island of Saint-Louis.
The bridge has been restored twice during its history due to the high salinity levels in the surrounding waters. It still requires constant maintenance to this day.
----------------------------------------
Title: Forgotten Cannons of Sine Saloum
Description: This rusting artillery is a relic of Vichy France's influence in West Africa.
Content: At the beginning of the Second World War in Europe, between May and September 1940, the government of Vichy France took the decision to shelter the gold reserved in the vaults of the Banque de France—the French equivalent of Fort Knox—so that neither the Allied nor the French resistance led by General De Gaulle could take control of it. Indeed, such a treasure could have represented a huge strategic advantage in the midst of hostilities.
Part of this gold (about 1,100 tons) ended up hidden in Kayès, an African city in present-day Mali, which was then a French colony. One of the access roads to Kayès is maritime: it is a delta of mangroves located on the Atlantic coast, called the Sine Saloum, which is part of present-day Senegal.
Vichy France took the decision to fortify this access road and had cannons, bunkers and military camps set up all along the maritime canal, in order to be able to repel a possible Allied expedition. These guns are mostly located along Cap Marniane, to the southwest of the island of Mar Lodj, Senegal. You can still see some of these cannons today. Most were rendered inoperable (their barrels were punctured) and have rusted in place. No invasion ever happened, and it is said that these guns never fired.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tiwai Island
Description: This river island in Sierra Leone is home to impressive biodiversity and the country's first community conservation program.
Content: Starting from the from the highlands of Guinea, the Moa River flows southwest toward the Atlantic Ocean. Along its path, the wide river hosts a cluster of islands. One of those is Tiwai Island, a 12-square kilometer piece of land in the southwestern region of Sierra Leone (about 30 kilometers from the Liberian border).
In the Mende language, Tiwai means “big island”—appropriately, as it is one of the largest inland islands in Sierra Leone. In the late 1970s, Tiwai was recognized as a special biosphere for wildlife conservation.
The island is a protected wildlife sanctuary with a lush rainforest and a rich biodiversity with a high concentration of endemic species—those found nowhere else in the world. Tiwai is home to some 9,000 plant species (20 percent of which are endemic), 785 bird species, 320 mammal species (with 11 different species of monkeys), 425 reptiles species, and 510 freshwater fish species (35 percent of which are endemic).
Among mammals, the rare pygmgy hippopotamus is one of Tiwai’s most important animal representatives. These elusive, solitary animals are much smaller than other hippos—about half as tall and a quarter of the weight. They are more active at night, when they emerge to feed on swampy vegetation. Pygmy hippos are only found in the Gola Rainforest in Sierra Leone and in parts of Liberia.
Management of Tiwai Island is handled by the Tiwai Island Administrative Committee,  the oldest community conservation program in Sierra Leone. The committee is made up of representatives from eight communities within the Koya and Barri Chiefdoms. These communities from the surrounding lands collaborate to protect the island and its resources in exchange for community development and livelihood assistance. Tiwai Island is a popular ecotourism destination as well as a research facility for visiting scientists.
----------------------------------------
Title: Tacugama Chimpanzee Sanctuary
Description: A rehabilitation center for confiscated, orphaned, and abandoned chimpanzees.
Content: The center was established for the rehabilitation of confiscated, orphans and abandoned chimpanzees. Located just outside Freetown, in the Western Area Peninsula National Park, Tacugama Chimpanzee Sanctuary provides guided tour in a unique context, a forest enclosures, where is possible to see chimpanzees up close.
The sanctuary was founded in 1995 by Bala and Sharmila Amarasekaran. Starting in the late 1980s, the husband-and-wife conservationist team had worked with primatologist Rosalind Alp to gather data on chimpanzees in the pet trade in Sierra Leone. Even after being rescued, many of the primates who had spent time as pets could not be returned to wild, which led to the idea for a chimpanzee sanctuary. When it first opened, there were five chimpanzees: Bruno, Julie, Charlie Boy, Philip, and Augustine.
Since then, Tacugama has grown into a large and diverse organization. In addition to caring for nearly 100 chimpanzees on-site, the sanctuary is involved in community outreach, field research, and conservation education. Tacaguma even kept to work during Sierra Leone’s civil war, which ended in 2002. Tacaguma helps monitor the country’s chimpanzee population, and once hosted the only documented albino chimpanzee.
The center also has several eco-lodges (without electricity) where visitors can spend the night.
----------------------------------------
Title: Bunce Island
Description: Home of the ruins of a British slave castle.
Content: Twenty miles up the Sierra Leone River from Freetown is Bunce Island, the site of a former British slave trading castle. The castle operated from 1670 and 1808 and sent around 50,000 enslaved humans from the African Rice Coast to the Americas. Most of the slaves who went through Bunce Island were sent to South Carolina and Georgia, where knowledge of rice cultivation was in high demand.
The island was also the site of an often forgotten battle during the American Revolutionary War when the (colonial-allied) French attacked and damaged the castle in 1779. The castle had been damaged or destroyed in a number of other previous attacks by the French and pirates (including one by Black Bart), but was rebuilt after each attack.
After the British outlawed the slave trade in 1807, the castle was used briefly as a trading post, a plantation, and a sawmill before it was abandoned around 1840. One hundred seventy years later, vegetation overgrowth clings to the deteriorating ruins of the castle (parts of which still include a second-story level) and its fortress. Other remains include the island’s slave yards, watchtowers, prison, a factory house, dormitories, several 18th-century cannons, and a graveyard.
In 1948, the island was officially protected by Sierra Leone, but historical preservation efforts have been delayed by civil war and other issues. In 2008, the World Monuments Fund declared the island one of the world’s “100 Most Endangered Sites,” but a recent joint U.S.-Sierra Leone five-year preservation effort looks hopeful and is in the process of preserving the site and erecting a museum on the island.
The island has been called “the most important historic site in Africa for the United States,” and descendants of slaves increasingly make the pilgrimage to view the emotional and tragic site through which their enslaved ancestors were taken, held captive, and sold.
Nowadays, the island is abandoned and is an endangered site.
----------------------------------------
Title: National Railway Museum
Description: After Sierra Leone's railways shut down in 1974, a collection of engines and other artifacts spent decades hidden away in this old workshop—now a museum.
Content: The Sierra Leone railroad system was built in 1897, with one line to Daru in the eastern part of the country (and a small branch to Makeni the largest town in the north).
The railroad system operated until 1974, then shut down due to a combination of increased car traffic and country policy. Since that year, some of the locomotives were bought and shipped to Wales, the others were kept in the capital city of Freetown. They were stored in the former train workshop, with the intention to convert it into a museum.
The collection survived despite years of neglected upkeep, and the workshop turning into a shelter during Sierra Leone’s civil war. From 1992 to 2002, some 50,000 people lost their lives and hundreds of thousands more lost their homes. Many of those displaced people found the former workshop complex and turned it into a temporary shelter.
 After the war’s end, the collection of railway engines was located and restoration work began. A team set about cleaning and repairing the engines as well as the workshop space. The museum officially opened in 2005, and has continued to grow since then. The museum shows maps of the railroads, their history, and photos of the stations. One of the unusual items in the museum’s collection is a couch specially made for Queen Elizabeth II to use while traveling through the country in 1961 (she never wound up using it). a tank locomotive built in 1915.
----------------------------------------
Title: Cotton Tree
Description: The oldest of its kind in the country, this tree sits where formerly enslaved people are said to have founded the city of Freetown.
Content: The historic symbol of Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone, is a large kapok tree known as the “Cotton Tree.” According to legend, the tree gained importance in 1792 when a group of formerly enslaved people settled the site of what is now Freetown.
After the American Revolution, the British granted freedom to the enslaved people who had fought with the Crown during the war. Some so-called “Black Loyalists” were given land and supplies to resettle in British-controlled Nova Scotia, while others went to London and parts of the Caribbean. In 1787, some 4,000 formerly enslaved people were resettled in Sierra Leone—regardless of where they or their ancestors had originally come from. Five years later, another group emigrated from Nova Scotia to Sierra Leone.
According to the story, when the first boat arrived, they walked up to a large tree just above the bay and held a Thanksgiving service there, praying and singing hymns. That tree still stands, now between the courthouse and the National Museum. Though its exact age is unknown, it is known to have existed in 1787 and believed to be the oldest cotton tree in the nation. The Cotton Tree is an iconic monument in the capital and appears on the 10,000 Leones banknotes.
In May 2023, after a series of heavy storms, the Cotton Tree fell. Julius Maada Bio, incumbent Sierra Leone president said: “All Sierra Leoneans will pause for thought at the loss of such a prestigious national symbol as Cotton Tree. For centuries it has been a proud emblem of our nation, a symbol of a nation that has grown to provide shelter for many.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Outamba-Kilimi National Park
Description: This national park is home to unique vegetation known as woodland savannah.
Content: This national park is divided into two different areas with peculiar vegetation known as woodland savanna, a mixture between the jungle and savannah ecosystems. The park garnered its name from mount Outamba and the River Kilimi.
This massive park once hosted Sierra Leone’s last community of African wild dogs, although the current numbers of the population are unknown. The park does remain home to various species of birds, bongo antelope, warthogs, chimpanzees, hippopotamuses, and pygmy hippos.
The park allows visitors to camp on the grounds, but it is possible to sleep in a two-bed hut managed by the nearby villages. However, the huts do not contain modern amenities.
----------------------------------------
Title: Old Fourah Bay College
Description: The first European-style university in western Sub-Saharan Africa.
Content: Created in 1827, this was the first European-style university in western Sub-Saharan Africa, and the first high-level institution since one located in Timbuktu collapsed.
According to UNESCO, “The Old Fourah Bay College is perhaps the single most influential institution in Africa in accounting for the penetration and acceleration of the spread of Western education on the continent.”
The building was used until the late-20th-century. It also once housed the Sierra Leone Government Railway headquarters, and later the Magistrate court. During the Sierra Leone Civil War, the building was used as a  shelter and was burned in 1999. Only the external brick walls and iron entryway have survived.
The World Monuments Fund lists this building as one of the “world’s 100 most endangered historic sites.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Old Wharf Steps
Description: One of the oldest brick structures in Freetown.
Content: Constructed in 1818 under Charles MacCarthy’s governorate, MacCarthy built the first brick construction in the country starting with the Government Wharf.
These steps are one of only a few constructions still standing from that period and connected the wharf to the city. They were climbed by the newcomers, freed enslaved peoples, the Maroon from Jamaica, and Black American soldiers who fought against the 13 rebel colonies of America. 
These stairs sometimes are wrongly called “Portuguese Steps” because of their ancient look. They are also known as the “Freetown Steps.”
----------------------------------------
Title: Saint John Maroon Church
Description: One of the most important Krio heritage sites in the country.
Content: The Krio people of Sierra Leone are an ethnic group descended from liberated English enslaved peoples and free Blacks who settled in the country.
One ethnic group responsible for cultural creations in Krio society were the Maroons. Maroons were descendants of the Kingdom of Ashanti peoples and were enslaved in Jamaica.
Many escaped the plantations and rioted against the British. They were deported first to Nova Scotia, then onto Sierra Leone where they rapidly became an influential group in politics and economics.
Maroons built one of the first and most iconic Krio cultural heritage sites in the country, the Saint John Maroon Church. The church was built in 1822 and is one of the first significant examples of Krio contribution to the new city of Freetown. 
Saint John Maroon Church is a small, humble white building. Part of the timbers and two of the surviving pews were taken from ships that brought Maroons to Sierra Leone.
----------------------------------------
Title: Akodessewa Fetish Market
Description: The Voodoo Superstore of the world.
Content: Deep in the heart of West Africa, Vodou (Togo); Vodoun (Benin), or more familiarly, Voodoo (Haiti) is not only alive and well, but it is thriving.
Togo’s capital city of Lomé is the birthplace of the largest Voodoo market in the world – a kind of super supply store for fetishes, charms and anything else one might need for a ritual. The Akodessewa Fetish Market, or Marche des Feticheurs, is a place where you can find anything from leopard heads and human skulls to Vodou (voodoo) priests who bless and create fetishes or predict the future and make medicines to heal whatever ails you.
Though many people think of Haiti as Voodoo’s biggest stronghold, the religion originated in West Africa. Vodoun is the official religion of neighboring Benin and is still the largest religion in the area, which is obvious given that the outdoor market’s location is in the heart of Togo’s capital. Although the market is owned and run by Beninese. The Akodessewa Fetish Market is a mecca to local practitioners and they travel there from all over the African continent.  Many believers view the Marche des Feticheurs as a kind of hospital or pharmacy – it is the place you go when you either cannot afford traditional treatment or traditional treatment has failed you. Here you can find talismans and charms good for treating everything from the flu or infertility to removing the blackest of curses.
In the practice of Voodoo every single creature is potent and divine, whether alive or dead, and in the Akodessewa Fetish Market you may find them all – monkeys, alligators, goats, leopards, gazelles, and many, many more – in various stages of decay and stacked up in macabre piles for blocks. The outdoor location doesn’t quite suppress the stench but at least the huge market is in the open air. It is a jarring place for tourists who are not used to the idea of animal sacrifice as part of worship or using pieces of the dead as talismans, but for locals who practice the religion, it is a treasure and a necessity.
----------------------------------------
Title: Nok Caves
Description: Hidden dwellings in the cliffsides of North Togo used by local Moba tribes to evade 18th-century slave traders.
Content: The Moba people in north Togo lived off the land in the Savanes region. During the 18th and 19th centuries, a neighboring ethnic group, the Tchokossi, would attack the Moba and kidnap their people to trade to European slave traders for guns and horses. 
The Moba took to the precarious cliffs of the area to build defensive dwellings hidden in the red rocks. Lookouts would use fire signals or the sound of cow horns to alert others that the Tchokossi were coming. They would then climb down overhanging vines to caves hidden beneath the cliffs. 
Within the cracks of the rock face, a mini fortress grew from large cylindrical structures filled with handmade clay jars to store grains and livestock. Nearby, springs brought water that was treated with local plants, making it possible to hide for days.
The Moba used offensive tactics as well. Young warriors would attack with arrows poisoned from the same local plant used to treat the water. Legend holds that other warriors would lure the Tchokossi to their doom on the cliffs. As the Tchokossi chased the warriors on their horses, the warriors would run in the direction of the edge of the cliffs and quickly dive into nearby cracks in the rocks and the Tchokossi, unable to stop their horses quick enough, would fly right off the edge. 
Nok translated in Moba means “hidden” which still describes this incredible site where visitors can explore and interact with the rich, somewhat unknown history of the ethnic groups of northern Togo. Declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2000, the Nok Caves still exist today accessible by a metal ladder constructed for tourists. 
The structures continue to extend right out of the narrow rocks. Though most of the area was looted, arrows and quivers can still be seen amongst the broken pottery. Over 150 jars are still intact which were used to store millet and sorghum. In the middle of the area is a long, angled rock where the leaders would sit to weave tales of the bravery of their people in evading slave traders.
----------------------------------------
Title: Koutammakou
Description: The unique building practices of the Batammariba reflect the community's deep reverence for and connection to the earth.
Content: The traditional building practices of the Batammariba people are featured center stage at Koutammakou, a mountainous region bordering Togo and Benin that UNESCO calls “a living cultural landscape.” These earth-tower houses, called takienta, are a national symbol of Togo, and are steeped in a strong cultural identity once threatened by other ethnic groups.
Batammariba roughly translates to “those who are the real architects of earth,” demonstrating how central the construction of these community dwellings has been to the Batammariba identity. Over the years, the takienta’s walls are reinforced by additional layers of mud and plaster, and when one is retired from use, its earthen core is incorporated into a new structure. Straw roofs usually top takienta structures, which are built to keep inhabitants and foodstuff cool under the hot Koutammakou sun.
About eight takienta make up a collective sikien, a full home of dedicated structures. One takienta might be used as a kitchen, others as bedrooms, and still others as food and livestock storage. Ancestral spirits are said to inhabit these dwellings and protect their living descendants. Takienta are now mostly used for storage and worship purposes, but are still used as primary dwellings in some areas of Koutammakou. The Batammariba people have a rich animist religion that recognizes both family and tribal deities and shows great reverence to nature. These beliefs are also manifested in elements of takienta construction, like the requirement that a dwelling’s main door always face westward to represent the sunset of the winter solstice.
The Batammariba people have been present in the Koutammakou region for hundreds of years, which was considered as one united area before colonial powers divided Togo and Benin through the mountains. The Togolese side is protected as a UNESCO World Heritage site, but the Benin side has no official protection.
----------------------------------------
